The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Hermitage, by Mary C. Dorris

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Hermitage
       Home of General Andrew Jackson

Author: Mary C. Dorris

Release Date: April 2, 2016 [EBook #51641]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HERMITAGE ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Dave Morgan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net






    [Illustration: Andrew Jackson at the Hermitage
    _This Portrait by Earl was presented in 1944 by Mrs. Charles W.
    Frear of Troy, N. Y., in memory of her husband, who owned it for
    many years._]




                             The Hermitage
                     Home of General Andrew Jackson


                 _Registered National Historic Landmark
                  Seventh President of United States_


                         P. O. HERMITAGE, TENN.


              _Originally Compiled by_ Mrs. Mary C. Dorris

                           Revised June, 1963

                   Mrs. A. MacDowell Smith, _Regent_
                  Mrs. Horatio B. Buntin, _Secretary_
                   Mrs. Douglas M. Wright, _Research_


  Historical                                                       Page 3
  Original Log Hermitage                                          Page 16
  Museum                                                          Page 24
  Mansion and Grounds                                             Page 41
  Tomb                                                            Page 54




                _Advice to Andrew Jackson by His Mother_


In 1781 Andrew Jackson, then fourteen years of age, enlisted in the
American Army; was captured and thrown into prison, where he had
smallpox. His mother, Elizabeth Hutchinson Jackson, through exchange,
arranged for his release and nursed him back to health. Responding to an
urgent appeal, she left him to go to Charleston to nurse some sick
neighbors who were confined there on a British hospital ship. This
errand of mercy cost her life. She caught yellow fever and died.

  Almost her last words to her young son were:

  _Andrew, if I should not see you again, I wish you to remember and
  treasure up some things I have already said to you. In this world you
  will have to make your own way. To do that, you must have friends. You
  can make friends by being honest, and you can keep them by being
  steadfast. You must keep in mind that friends worth having will in the
  long run expect as much from you as they give to you. To forget an
  obligation or to be ungrateful for a kindness is a base crime--not
  merely a fault or a sin, but an actual crime. Men guilty of it sooner
  or later must suffer the penalty. In personal conduct be always polite
  but never obsequious. None will respect you more than you respect
  yourself. Avoid quarrels as long as you can without yielding to
  imposition. But sustain your manhood always. Never bring a suit in law
  for assault and battery or for defamation. The law affords no remedy
  for such outrages that can satisfy the feelings of a true man. Never
  wound the feelings of others. Never brook wanton outrage upon your own
  feelings. If ever you have to vindicate your feelings or defend your
  honor, do it calmly. If angry at first, wait until your wrath cools
  before you proceed._

These words were repeated by General Jackson on his birthday, March 15,
1815, at New Orleans, to three members of his military family: Major
John H. Eaton, Major William B. Lewis, and Captain W. O. Butler.
"Gentlemen," said General Jackson, "I wish she could have lived to see
this day. There never was a woman like her. She was gentle as a dove and
as brave as a lioness. Her last words have been the law of my life."

   _Copies of the above may be purchased at the Souvenir Shop at the
                               Hermitage_

    [Illustration: MRS. ANDREW JACKSON]

    [Illustration: ANDREW JACKSON]




Andrew Jackson


                           _By_ Reau E. Folk

Andrew Jackson, seventh President of the United States, gave the name
"Hermitage" to his home. In his inspiring memory it is preserved.


                                _Youth_

 Andrew Jackson was of Scotch-Irish lineage. His parents were of the
rugged pioneer type that throughout America helped to lay the foundation
of a great republic. He was born on March 15, 1767, in what was known as
the Waxhaws Settlement, near the line between North and South Carolina.
There has been some dispute as to which of the two States could claim
him. Some authorities appear to have definitely settled that at the time
of his nativity the Waxhaws Settlement constituted a part of South
Carolina, but that now Jackson's birth site is comprehended in Union
County, North Carolina. Jackson always gave South Carolina as his birth
state.

Andrew Jackson's father, for whom he was named, died several days before
he was born. His mother, Elizabeth Hutchinson Jackson, to whom tribute
should be paid as a truly remarkable woman, heroically met the hard
situation of rearing and educating her three small sons. Young Andrew
was nourished in the Revolutionary sentiment, which was rife in the late
sixties and early seventies, bursting into flame in 1775. He and his
mother and brothers were patriots from the inception of the
Revolutionary movement. These fires of patriotism in the Waxhaws were
fanned by the fact that there was much Tory sentiment. When in August,
1776, a newspaper reached the Waxhaws carrying the Declaration of
Independence young Andrew Jackson, then in his tenth year, was called
upon to read it to an assemblage. In 1781, at the age of fourteen, he
enlisted with the South Carolina forces and was later made prisoner and
struck down by a sword in the hands of a British officer whose boots he
refused to black. His two brothers also enlisted in the war and gave up
their lives. His mother, as a result of a mission service to Charleston
to nurse prisoners from the Waxhaws there on shipboard, contracted
yellow fever and died. At the successful end of the struggle of the
Colonies young Andrew Jackson, in his fifteenth year, emaciated from
desperate prison illness, found himself alone in the world, an orphan of
the Revolution.


                             _Early Career_

 After completing his schooling, Jackson began the study of law. In 1786
he was licensed at Salisbury, N. C., and in 1788 went to Jonesboro, now
in Washington County, Tenn., then in North Carolina. After a brief
career at Jonesboro he received an appointment as U. S. Attorney for the
Western District of North Carolina with headquarters at Nashville. He
reached Nashville in 1788. He took an active part in Public Affairs and
was a member of the Convention that framed the Constitution of
Tennessee. In 1796, when Tennessee was admitted to the Union, he was
chosen as the first Representative of the new state to Congress. A year
later he was appointed to the United States Senate, and after a short
service he resigned and subsequently became a member of the Superior
Court of Law and Equity, holding this position until 1804, when he
resigned to devote himself to personal affairs.


                               _Military_

 Andrew Jackson was Major-General of Tennessee Militia from 1802 to
1814. It was in the War of 1812 that Jackson became a national figure.
This war was the inevitable sequence of the Revolutionary War. It was
occasioned by the conduct of England in restricting our commerce,
impressing into her service seamen from our ships, acts of contempt
intolerable to a free people. It has been called in apt phraseology the
War OF American Independence in contra-distinction to the Revolution,
which was FOR American Independence. Andrew Jackson, as Major-General of
Tennessee Militia, threw himself into the conflict. He inaugurated a
campaign against the Creek Indians, who, allied with the British, had
been stirred to deeds of atrocity, the most revolting of which was the
massacre at Fort Mimms, Alabama, on August 30, 1813. After a series of
smaller engagements, General Jackson, finally, on March 27, 1814,
overwhelmingly defeated and crushed the Creek Indians at the Great
Horseshoe Bend. Two months later, May 31, General Jackson was made
Major-General of the United States Army, with command of the Southern
and Western Divisions.


                             _New Orleans_

 No sketch of Andrew Jackson, however brief, can fail of emphasis on the
Battle of New Orleans, for it was his marvelous victory over the greatly
outnumbering, confident, invading British Army on January 8, 1815, that
first gave him national renown and made him a popular idol and hero. It
came at a time when the national spirit was at its lowest ebb, as a
result of a long series of land defeats, and sent a wave of exultant joy
throughout the country. It was a complete and decisive victory.
Historians agree that it was a brilliant victory, but many of them, and
unfortunately school histories, present the view that the battle was
fought after peace and was unnecessary. This has been exposed as an
error. The State of Tennessee in 1927 appointed a commission to make
research into the real value of the battle of New Orleans, and this
commission submitted report to the Governor who transmitted it to the
Legislature of 1935. This report has been published by the Ladies'
Hermitage Association and is kept on sale at the Hermitage. It shows by
quotation from the document itself that the treaty of Ghent, signed by
the commissioners of the contending countries December 24, 1814,
specifically provided that it should be effective when ratified by both
sides, and that it was not ratified by the United States until February
17, 1815, forty days after the battle at New Orleans. The report further
shows by evidence of records that the battle saved the Louisiana
Purchase, or another war with England. It shows also that the battle
reestablished national integrity or peace from within. The importance of
the battle can hardly be overestimated, viewed either from the immediate
effects or the aftermath. The Ladies' Hermitage Association in 1935
joined with the National Daughters of 1812 and other patriotic entities
in calling for revision of school histories to accord with revealed
facts.

The victory at New Orleans, one of the most decisive defensive victories
of history, will always be celebrated as an illustrious feat of the
American arms and of the military genius of Andrew Jackson. Jackson
mobilized incongruous elements, every available resource, into defense
against the enemy attack. The forces thus assembled, consisting of
Tennessee militia, Kentucky militia, Louisiana militia, and small
contingents of regulars, Baratarian privateers, free men of color,
Mississippi Dragoons, and friendly Choctaw Indians, numbered in all a
little over five thousand. The invading army consisted of about twelve
thousand seasoned British regulars. The British soldiers fought bravely,
as British soldiers always do, but they could not stand against the
well-planned, unerring fire from the American breastworks. The assault
continued for twenty-five minutes, and then the British retreated in
confusion, having lost in killed, wounded, and captured over twenty-five
hundred of their number, including General Pakenham, chief in command,
and General Gibbs, second in command, both having been killed. The
American loss was put at thirteen killed and wounded. On the west bank
of the river the British succeeded in capturing a small redoubt, but
owing to the catastrophe of the main attack, this was abandoned.

Jackson was too prudent to yield to the impulse to pursue the retreating
enemy, which he knew still outnumbered him by two to one, but kept in
readiness against a return assault. The British ten days later broke
camp and retired to their ships, and on January 28 set sail for the
Dauphine islands. Jackson maintained himself in constant readiness
against possibility of a return attack.


                         _The Judge Hall Fine_

 As illustrative of Jackson's character or one phase of that remarkable
character, brief mention is here given to the incident known as the
Judge Hall fine. When General Jackson began organizing for the defense
of New Orleans he put the city and environs under strict martial law.
While this was irksome to the civil authorities it was acquiesced in
because of the dire necessities of the situation. Rigid martial law was
continued after the battle of January 8, and after the departure of the
British from our shores. General Jackson took no chances of being caught
unprepared in case of another attack. Some time in February a delegation
was sent to the British fleet to arrange some exchanges. They reported
upon return that a passing ship had brought the news of the agreement
upon the peace treaty by the commissioners at Ghent. General Jackson
refused to abrogate martial law, saying the news might be a British
trick, or even if true the treaty must be ratified, and that in any
event he would await official dispatches from the Government. A pamphlet
appeared offensively criticizing the continuance of martial law.
Authorship was traced to a member of the legislature. General Jackson
had the offender arrested for spreading sedition in the camp. The
prisoner applied to Federal Judge Hall for a writ of habeas corpus,
which was granted. Thereupon General Jackson had Judge Hall also
arrested and conveyed outside the martial law jurisdiction. When later
(about March 13) official word came of the ratification of the treaty
with proclamation of peace, martial law was lifted. Judge Hall returned
and cited General Jackson to appear before him on the charge of contempt
of court. General Jackson, in civilian dress, responded. He was followed
to the court room by a large crowd of sympathizers. The judge showed
uneasiness, fearing a mob. General Jackson, mounting a seat, said:
"There is no danger here--there shall be none. The same hand that
protected this city from outrage by the invaders of the country will
shield and protect this court or perish in the effort." Judge Hall
imposed a fine of a thousand dollars which General Jackson promptly
paid. When he left the courthouse a demonstrative populace took the
horses from his carriage and conveyed him in triumphal way to his
dwelling place. A public subscription was started to pay the amount of
the fine, but General Jackson halted it. In 1843, six years after
Jackson had retired from the Presidency, Congress refunded the fine plus
six per cent interest. This incident is given as one distinct refutation
of the charge so frequently made by Jackson's enemies that he was
lawless, that he knew no law but his own will. From this instance,
occurring at a crucial time in his career, the conclusion, which may be
generally interpretative, is manifest that Jackson, no matter how
autocratic in authority, no matter how intolerant of cross current
interference, when occasion for authority ceased, submitted to, with
readiness if necessary to defend, the civil institutions of his country.


                               _Interim_

 In 1817 and 1818 General Jackson conducted a successful campaign
against the Seminole Indians. His operations carried him into Spanish
territory and international trouble was feared. It, however, happily
ended in the cession by Spain to us of Florida. General Jackson was
appointed Governor of this territory, but after a brief service resigned
and returned to the Hermitage.

In 1823-24 General Jackson again represented Tennessee in the United
States Senate. In 1824 he was a candidate for President of the United
States and received a plurality of the votes in the electoral college,
but no candidate having received a majority, under the Constitution the
election went to the House of Representatives, where John Quincy Adams
was chosen.


                            _The President_

 In 1828 General Jackson was elected President, after a campaign marked
by much bitterness. He received 178 electoral votes, and John Quincy
Adams 83. In 1832 he was overwhelmingly re-elected, receiving 219
electoral votes. Henry Clay received 49, John Floyd 11, and William Wirt
7.

His administrations were the first to be classed as "Democratic." Those
of Washington and John Adams were known as "Federal," those of
Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, and John Quincy Adams as
"Democratic-Republican."

General Jackson's two administrations were marked by the force and power
of his great personality. One of his memorable achievements was his
prompt and effective dissipation of the cloud that hung over the Union
when South Carolina sought to nullify the Tariff Act, which her citizens
claimed was oppressive. President Jackson's great proclamation in this
crisis electrified the nation. South Carolina repealed the nullification
act. Another outstanding feature of President Jackson's administration
was his veto of the act passed by Congress to re-charter the United
States Bank. Congress declined to pass the bill over his veto, and the
Bank went out of existence as a Federal institution at the expiration of
its twenty-year charter in 1836. President Jackson, by direct
instruction in October, 1833, caused the removal of the Government's
deposits from the U. S. Bank. This led to the establishment of the
sub-treasury system, by which the government became the custodian of its
own money and disbursed it in accordance with specific appropriations by
Congress. The removal of these deposits from the U. S. Bank created a
great furor. It was resented by the Bank and its friends. The U. S.
Bank, operating under charter from Congress, was undoubtedly a strong
political factor. It was the head of what was called the money power,
and represented an opposition so strong that no public man in America,
save Andrew Jackson, could have overcome it. An adverse Senate, under
the leadership of Messrs. Clay, Calhoun, and Webster, adopted a
resolution March, 1834, censuring the President for the removal of the
public money from the U. S. Bank. The resolution provoked great
resentment among the followers of Jackson throughout the country. Many
States, through their Legislatures, instructed their Senators to vote to
expunge the unwarranted resolution from the Senate records. On January
16, 1837, after a prolonged debate, in which Clay, Calhoun, and Webster
sought to stem the tide, a majority of the Senate voted to strike from
the record the offensive resolution. Then and there the journal of June,
1834, was produced and the Senate's Secretary drew heavy ink lines
around the resolution and wrote across the face thereof the words,
"Expunged by order of the Senate."

In December, 1834, President Jackson announced the extinguishment of the
public debt.

In 1835, one Richard Lawrence, afterwards pronounced insane, attempted
to assassinate President Jackson on the steps of the Capitol. The
brave-hearted President rushed upon his assailant with uplifted cane,
exclaiming: "Let me get to him, gentlemen; I am not afraid." He would
not desist until the would-be assassin was overpowered.

March 4, 1837, General Jackson ended his notable administration as Chief
Magistrate, leaving a Government practically free from debt and the
country in a highly prosperous condition. He retired to his beloved
Hermitage, which became a mecca for the leaders of his party. He
continued to exercise a potent influence upon the affairs of the nation
until his death, June 8, 1845.

The direction which Andrew Jackson gave to our national life and the
marked impress he made upon it are still manifest. In every crisis his
memory has been, and is still being, invoked as an inspiration to
courage, honesty, and patriotism.


                                DOMESTIC

General Jackson's wife was Rachel Donelson. She first contracted a
marriage with Lewis Robards, who lived in the territory of Kentucky,
then under the jurisdiction of Virginia. The marriage was not a happy
one and she returned to her paternal home near Nashville. Robards
presented a petition for divorce to the Legislature of Virginia,
alleging desertion. At that time Legislatures passed upon and granted
divorces. The news came in 1791 that the divorce had been granted. Later
in the year Jackson and Mrs. Robards were married. It subsequently
developed that the Virginia Legislature had not granted the divorce
outright, but had authorized a court in the Kentucky territory to do so
upon hearing of the facts. The divorce was not made effective until late
in 1793. Immediately thereafter in 1794 Jackson and his wife were
remarried. While this irregularity was without intent on the part of
either, it was in after years used as the basis of attack upon Jackson
by his political enemies, being especially stressed by them in the
acrimonious campaign of 1828. These attacks were met by a plain
statement of the facts to the country by Judge Overton, General
Jackson's close friend and one-time law partner.

The attacks gave deep distress to Mrs. Jackson, who was a truly good and
noble woman and greatly beloved by all who knew her. One of the
outstanding features of General Jackson's life was his tender devotion
to her. After her death this devotion continued to her memory until he
was laid by her side. It was given beautiful expression in the epitaph
which he himself wrote and which is carved upon her tomb in the
Hermitage garden. No student of Jackson should fail to read and reread
this epitaph.

Mrs. Jackson died December 22, 1828, just after her husband's election
to the Presidency. As he sat at her bier, he said: "What are all the
world and its honors to me since she is taken from me?"

A great demonstration planned in Nashville in celebration of Jackson's
election was cancelled on account of Mrs. Jackson's death.

General and Mrs. Jackson had no children. In 1809 they adopted the
infant son of Severn Donelson, brother of Mrs. Jackson, and named him
Andrew Jackson, Jr. He bore that name and became heir to all the estate.


                       _An Appraisal of Jackson_

 Many volumes have been devoted to Andrew Jackson and probably many more
will be written. He looms bigger and bigger in perspective. Andrew
Jackson was absolutely and rigidly honest.

He was absolutely without fear, having not only superb physical courage
but moral courage of the same degree.

He was intensely patriotic, and having been cradled in the Revolution in
which as a boy he took part, he was imbued with the underlying spirit of
that conflict, and carried that spirit throughout his life and expressed
it in his acts.

He agreed with Thomas Jefferson's construction of the fundamental
purposes of government and became an active, dynamic exponent of
Jefferson's democratic ideals; for example, believing in the doctrine of
special privileges to none, with his first message to Congress he began
the fight against renewal of the charter of the United States Bank, then
grown into a great financial and political power, and continued until he
finally destroyed that beneficiary of privilege.

He had what might be called a dominating personality, inspiring a
devoted and confident following, as is the case with a leader who always
knows just where he is and why he is there; he had an iron will which
surmounted difficulties and mastered his own physical infirmities.

He had at times a violent temper, but it was always subject to his will.

He had the power of forming quick, comprehensive, and just judgment, and
the faculty of putting judgment once formed into immediate execution.

In manner he was considerate and scrupulously courteous, being called by
one writer the most polite gentleman in the world.

The rare devotion of his friends and those nearest in contact to him
gives attestation to a warm and kindly nature, probably nothing giving
stronger evidence of this nature than the letters of fatherly advice
written from the White House to his youthful ward, Hutchins.

His messages are among the strongest papers of all the Presidents,
breathing lofty statesmanship and patriotism inspiring to all who read.

His two terms as President marked a distinct advance in popular
government, and ushered in a new era.

No appraisal of Jackson could be complete without inclusion of reference
to the military phase of his remarkable career. His military genius was
little short of marvelous. It aimed at and achieved success in every
campaign he commanded. It gives him rank as one of the greatest generals
of our history. It was conspicuously and gloriously displayed in saving
the Republic at a critical hour. But that military genius was never
exercised except for his country's defense, being subordinated at all
times to high conception of his country's good. If, on the other hand,
he had loved military glory for that glory's sake, if he had been of the
Man-on-Horseback type, that genius and his powers of leadership might
have carried him far in the lists of the world's military chieftains. We
are told that Napoleon Bonaparte, during the hundred days of his return
from Elba, studied Jackson's defense of New Orleans.


                       _The Duel With Dickinson_

 The duel between General Andrew Jackson and Charles Dickinson, in which
the latter lost his life, occurred May 30, 1806. Historians commonly
agree that the feeling between the two men had its inception in remarks
made by Dickinson concerning Jackson's marriage. Dickinson was reputed
to have said that Jackson was entitled to great military honors because
he had captured another man's wife. Jackson taxed Dickinson with having
made that statement and Dickinson apologized, saying he must have been
in his cups at this time. While the incident thus passed, it is manifest
that a spirit of animosity was engendered between the two. Being
gentlemen, both were adverse to predicating a duel or fight upon a
woman's name. The duel had its ostensible origin in a projected horse
race which did not materialize. In 1805 Jackson was the owner of a
celebrated horse, Truxton, and in the autumn of that year a match was
arranged between Truxton and Ploughboy, a horse owned by Captain Joseph
Ervin, father-in-law of Charles Dickinson. The stakes were $2,000 with a
provision for a forfeit of $800 should either horse fail to appear.
Before the race Ploughboy went lame and was withdrawn, Captain Ervin
paying the stipulated forfeit in certain notes. These notes became the
subject of controversy in which Dickinson entered. It seems manifest
that Jackson believed that Dickinson was a member of a clique in
Nashville that wanted to draw him (Jackson) into trouble.

The mock heroic challenge of one Thomas Swann, to which he responded by
a public caning of the challenger, Jackson regarded as inspired by
Dickinson, and in his letter to Swann (before Swann's challenge) he
charged that Dickinson was the instigator. Dickinson responded, using
this language in conclusion: "As to the word 'coward,' I think it is as
applicable to yourself as to anybody I know. And I shall be very glad
when an opportunity serves to know in what manner you give your
'anodynes,' and hope you will take in payment one of my most moderate
cathartics." After sending this letter Dickinson left for New Orleans,
where he remained four months. In the meantime Jackson had a newspaper
controversy with Swann, in which he did not hesitate to connect
Dickinson with Swann and to ascribe to them sinister motives. After
Dickinson's return he gave a communication to the press in which he
denounced Jackson as "a worthless scoundrel, a poltroon, and a coward."
Jackson immediately challenged Dickinson to a duel, and the challenge
was accepted before the day ended. General Thomas Overton was Jackson's
second, and Dr. Hanson Catlet the second for Dickinson. The meeting was
arranged for Friday, May 30, 1806, at Harrison Mills on Red River, Logan
County, Kentucky, the hour being seven o'clock in the morning. Here is
the language of the agreement: "The distance shall be twenty-four feet,
the parties facing each other with their pistols down perpendicularly.
When they are ready, the single word 'Fire' is to be given, at which
they are to fire as soon as they please. Should either fire before the
word is given, we pledge ourselves to shoot him down instantly. The
person to give the word to be determined by lot; also the choice of
positions. We mutually agree that the above regulations shall be
observed in the affair of honor depending between General Andrew Jackson
and Charles Dickinson, Esq." The place fixed for the meeting was a long
day's ride from Nashville and the duelists were obliged to start about
twenty-four hours in advance of the hour set. Dickinson, in addition to
his second, was accompanied by a gay party of friends. On the journey he
is said to have performed feats with his pistol, which were related to
Jackson and Overton, who followed. After spending the night in
neighboring cabins both combatants were on the field at the hour
appointed. Overton won the right to give the word. As soon as he called
"Fire," Dickinson shot and the dust arose from Jackson's coat. While
badly wounded, Jackson, with deliberation, aimed and fired, and
Dickinson reeled, shot through the body. He died that night. Jackson was
hit in the left breast. He suffered from the wound at periods years
afterwards.

    [Illustration: ANDREW JACKSON, JR.]

    [Illustration: MRS. SARAH YORK JACKSON]


                        MRS. SARAH YORK JACKSON

                        _By_ Mrs. Walter Stokes

No history of the Hermitage could be complete without a sketch of Mrs.
Sarah York Jackson, the beloved daughter-in-law of General Jackson. She
was the daughter of Peter Stilley and Mary Haines York, a wealthy
shipowner of Philadelphia. She and her two sisters were left orphans at
an early age and were educated at Miss Mallon's School for Young Ladies
in Philadelphia. Sarah was the second and most beautiful of the sisters
and always said she would never marry unless the President should come
courting. One day, while out walking, in the early spring, she met a
cousin of hers, a young army officer, in company with a very handsome
young man. The handsome young man proved to be the President's son,
Andrew Jackson, Jr. They were introduced. It was love at first sight.
The President approved, and they were married in October, 1831, at the
home of her sister, Mrs. Joshua Lippincott, in Philadelphia, going
immediately by carriage to the White House in Washington, where a
brilliant reception was held in her honor, and where President Jackson
received her with the greatest affection and pride. At this reception
she wore the lovely wedding dress which is now on display in the
National Museum in Washington, with the costumes of the other mistresses
of the White House. Her portrait was painted at this time by Earl. The
red velvet dress pictured is in the Hermitage museum.

This portrait hangs in the dining room at the Hermitage, of which the
accompanying picture is a copy. An old copy hangs in the White House, of
which she was mistress for some years, a position which, by her natural
grace and tact and great beauty, she was eminently fitted to fill. All
of her children were born at the Hermitage, and the family was the
solace and comfort of General Jackson's declining years. She had grown
dearer and dearer to his heart and came next to his beloved wife,
Rachel, who had died when he was elected President.

    [Illustration: HERMITAGE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH

Erected in 1823, across the Lebanon Road from Rachel's Lane, this church
is open to the public and services are still held there. General
Jackson, to please his devoutly religious, beloved wife, was the largest
contributor to the building fund and always referred to it as "Mrs.
Jackson's Church." In his latter years he was a faithful member,
frequently arriving before the service with his man servant to see that
the fires were properly made. Two log fireplaces were used for heat,
home-made brick for flooring, and candles for lighting.]




                            _The_ HERMITAGE


    [Illustration: The log cabin located at the northeast corner of the
    Hermitage grounds is part of the group of log houses which comprised
    the original Hermitage, where General and Mrs. Jackson resided from
    1804 until 1819.]

The first home in which Andrew Jackson and Rachel, his wife, lived was
at Poplar Grove. This tract of land was bought by Andrew Jackson from
Captain John Donelson, brother of Mrs. Jackson, on April 30, 1793, for
the sum of one hundred pounds. In the deed its location is described as
being "on the south side of Cumberland River in Jones' Bend ... being
the lower end of a survey of 630 acres granted the said John Donelson by
patent...."

When the Jacksons returned to Nashville from Natchez in the early autumn
of 1791 they made their home with Mrs. Jackson's mother, Mrs. John
Donelson, who lived on the opposite side of the river from Jackson's
property in Jones' Bend, near the present pike which leads from
Nashville to Gallatin. Indian hostilities and the long absences
necessitated by Andrew Jackson's legal business in the courts of both
the Cumberland and the Holston settlements, made it impossible for him
to leave his bride in the home located outside of the heavily fortified
portions of the settlement. Sometime between April 30, 1793, and the
spring of 1794, however, a home was built at Poplar Grove and occupied.
A letter of Andrew Jackson's dated May 16, 1794, was headed "Poplar
Grove." Even then Poplar Grove was not safe, for as late as September,
1794, reports to the War Department state that five men were fired upon
by the Indians.

On March 7, 1796, Andrew Jackson bought the Hunter's Hill tract of 640
acres from John Shannon for the sum of $700. The Hunter's Hill house was
located about two miles from the present Hermitage mansion.

A little more than a month and a half after the sale of the Hunter's
Hill property, Andrew Jackson purchased the Hermitage estate. On the
twenty-third of August, 1804, he paid Nathaniel Hays $3,400 for the
425-acre tract, "with its appurtenances," which was to become "The
Hermitage." This reference to appurtenances supports the statement made
in later years by Mrs. James K. Polk, wife of the eleventh President of
the United States, that the Hermitage of the log cabin period "was not
the commodious country house so familiar to devout Democrats in
pilgrimages of later years. It was a group of log houses in close
proximity to each other. The principal one had been built for a
block-house in the days of Indian alarms, afterwards used as a store
and, about 1804, converted into a dwelling. It, like all block-houses,
was two stories high. Near it were three smaller houses, one story high,
with low attics. These were used as lodgings for members of the family
or guests."

Aaron Burr was entertained in these log buildings when he made his
famous visits to the Hermitage in 1805 and 1806, and it was to this
humble home that General Jackson returned after the Battle of New
Orleans (January 8, 1815), which had made him the Conquering Hero and
idol of the nation.

Sometime during 1818 the site of the brick mansion was selected and the
square house which forms the central portion of the present building was
erected. Diligent research by the leading Jackson students of the nation
has failed to reveal the exact date or details of the construction of
this building. It is generally agreed, however, that it was completed in
1819 and was occupied when President Monroe was a guest at the Hermitage
in June, 1819. The Marquis de Lafayette was entertained in this building
in 1825, and many other celebrities knew its hospitality. The simple,
but commodious home was the center of the 1828 campaign which resulted
in electing Andrew Jackson to the presidency of the United States.

In 1831 wings and other improvements were added to the square brick
building which had been erected in 1818-1819. At this time the present
kitchen and smoke-house were built and the tomb in the garden was
erected. Three years later--October 13, 1834--fire destroyed much of the
interior and the roof of the building. The present dining-room wing, the
kitchen, and out-houses were not burned, however. With the exception of
a few large pieces on the second floor, all of the furniture, as well as
General Jackson's valuable papers, clothing, and gifts received after
the victory at New Orleans, were saved.

With the rebuilding the gabled roofs on the wings and central portions
of the building were changed to their present appearance and the ten
rather unattractive columns of the 1831 building gave place to the
present stately ones. The interior was also improved. The mansion, as it
stands today, was repaired and ready for occupancy by May, 1835. The
walls, being sturdily built in the beginning, withstood the fire, making
it necessary for only the woodwork and the interiors to be rebuilt.

General Jackson died in 1845 at the age of 78 years, and was buried by
the side of his wife in the tomb in the garden.

The Hermitage Farm, of 500 acres, was sold by Andrew Jackson, Jr., in
1856, to the State of Tennessee for the sum of $48,000.

Andrew Jackson, Jr., and his family then left the Hermitage, but, at the
invitation and solicitation of Gov. Isham G. Harris, returned in 1860 to
become its custodian until further disposition could be made of the
property.

The State of Tennessee offered the Hermitage to the United States
Government for a branch of West Point Academy, but the Civil War
prevented the consummation of the plan.

The family of the adopted son, Andrew Jackson, Jr., remained at the
Hermitage during the Civil War.

General George H. Thomas, commandant of the post at Nashville during the
Civil War, sent out a detailed guard to protect the place and save it
from devastation.

Andrew Jackson, Jr., died at the Hermitage in 1865, leaving his widow,
Mrs. Sarah Jackson, and her widowed sister, Mrs. Marion Adams, the sole
occupants of the Hermitage. The daughter, Rachel, had married Dr. John
M. Lawrence, and all the young men, the sons of Andrew and Sarah
Jackson, also those of Mrs. Adams, five in number, joined the
Confederate Service. Only one, Col. Andrew Jackson, returned.

The State Legislature allowed Mrs. Sarah Jackson to remain tenant at
will, during her life, at the Hermitage. She died in 1888, her sister,
Mrs. Adams, having preceded her to the grave. Both are buried in the
garden.

Col. Andrew Jackson, III, after serving gallantly as Colonel of
Artillery in the Confederate Army, returned, the only surviving soldier
of the Hermitage family, a released prisoner from Camp Chase. He
remained with his mother during her life and by her will inherited the
household furniture, mementoes, and relics of the old hero. Colonel
Jackson died in Knoxville, Tenn., December 17, 1906, and was buried in
the Hermitage garden by the side of his brother, Capt. Samuel Jackson.
Andrew Jackson, IV, son of Colonel and Mrs. Jackson, died in Los
Angeles, California, 1953, and is buried in the Hermitage garden. His
brother, Albert Marble Jackson, was reputedly lost at sea.


                   THE LADIES' HERMITAGE ASSOCIATION

Mrs. Andrew Jackson, III (Amy Rich), conceived the idea of the Ladies'
Hermitage Association. The organizers were Andrew Jackson, III, Mrs.
Mary C. Dorris, Mr. and Mrs. William A. Donelson.

On February 19, 1889, Mrs. Rachel J. Lawrence, Mary W. May, Mrs. Mary
Hadly Clare, Mrs. E. L. Nicholson, Miss Louise Grundy Lindsley, Mrs.
Henry Heiss, and Mrs. Mary C. Dorris applied to the State of Tennessee
and were granted a charter incorporating the Ladies' Hermitage
Association. The objects of the Association stated in the charter were
to purchase from the State of Tennessee certain land, including the
residence and tomb of Andrew Jackson, and to "beautify, preserve, and
adorn the same throughout all coming years, in a manner most befitting
the memory of that great man, and commensurate with the gratitude of his
countrymen." The General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, on April 5,
1889, conveyed to Trustees for the Ladies' Hermitage Association
twenty-five acres of the Hermitage farm, including the house, tomb, and
surrounding buildings.

Dr. and Mrs. J. Berrien Lindsley rendered very efficient service in
securing from the State Legislature the original conveyance of
twenty-five acres to the Ladies' Hermitage Association.

The General Assembly of the State of Tennessee (Chapter No. 27, Public
Acts of Tennessee, 1923), at the earnest solicitation of the Officers
and Directors of the Ladies' Hermitage Association, conveyed
232^5/_1_{0} acres of the Hermitage farm, located in the Fourth Civil
District of Davidson County, Tennessee, to the Board of Trustees for the
Ladies' Hermitage Association, to the end that said Ladies' Hermitage
Association be permitted and encouraged to preserve and beautify same,
so as to display the respect, love, and affection which a grateful State
and people cherish for their illustrious hero and statesman, Andrew
Jackson.

The General Assembly of the State of Tennessee in 1935, by Public Act,
conveyed 500 acres of the original Hermitage farm tract to the Board of
Trustees to be maintained under the care and custody of the Ladies'
Hermitage Association. The Hermitage farm is now under the supervision
of the Ladies' Hermitage Association for preservation as a perpetual
memorial. In 1960 the Association acquired 125 acres adjoining the north
boundary as protection against future industrial or housing
developments, bringing the total acreage to 625.

The furniture and relics were in the Hermitage at the time of the
organization of the Ladies' Hermitage Association in 1889, and Col.
Andrew Jackson gave the Association an option upon them. But failing to
raise the necessary money after four years' trial, the entire collection
of relics and furniture was removed in 1893 by the owner, Col. Andrew
Jackson, to Cincinnati, where he had them on exhibition for pay. This
venture was not a success, so they were returned to Nashville. From this
collection and from various members of the family and others, the
Association has bought the relics it now owns, that so beautifully adorn
the residence where they first were placed.

The Association in its early years put forth untiring efforts to raise
the funds necessary to restore the mansion and collect the original
furnishings and relics. It inaugurated various enterprises, such as
lectures, concerts, balls, etc.

President Theodore Roosevelt visited the Hermitage, October 22, 1907,
and in a speech then promised government aid. He incorporated the matter
in his annual message, and as a result and through the efforts of
Senator James B. Frazier and Congressman John W. Gaines, both of whom
were trustees, Congress made an appropriation of $5,000 to repair and
improve the Hermitage. The present sources of revenue are admission
fees, souvenir shop sales, and Association membership dues.

The collection of relics and furniture now in the house is the result of
years of effort of the Ladies' Hermitage Association. It is interesting
to note, in this connection, that the Hermitage is the only great
National Shrine in this country having original furnishings throughout.
All furnishings in the house originally belonged to General Jackson,
with the exception of a few articles which, in each case, are noted in
the catalogue.

In 1961, the National Park Service of the U. S. Department of the
Interior designated the Hermitage as a Registered National Historic
Landmark.

For forty-five years following the opening of the Hermitage to the
public, Mr. and Mrs. T. L. Baker served as careful and dedicated
custodians of the buildings and grounds. They were succeeded by their
son, Andrew Jackson Baker, who was born at the Hermitage, and his wife,
and it is due to their continued dedication and interest that the
Hermitage has maintained its reputation as the nation's best-kept
shrine. Due to ill health, Mr. Baker resigned in 1963.

The present custodian is Steve S. Lawrence.


                       ANDREW JACKSON CHRONOLOGY
                             BY W. B. MARR

  1767 March 5         Born near the line between South Carolina and
                       North Carolina.
  1784 Fall            Began study of law.
  1787 May             Admitted to practice law in North Carolina.
  1788 August 2        Duel with Colonel Waightstill Avery at Jonesboro.
  1788 Spring          Appointed public prosecutor for territory south of
                       Ohio River.
  1791 August          Married Mrs. Rachel Donelson Robards at Natchez,
                       Miss.
  1796 January 1       Member first constitutional convention of
                       Tennessee.
  1796                 Elected representative In Congress from Tennessee.
  1797 November 2      Appointed by Governor Sevier Senator from
                       Tennessee, succeeding William Blount, resigned.
  1798 June            Resigned from Senate.
  1798                 Elected member of the superior court of law and
                       equity.
  1801                 Elected major-general of Tennessee militia.
  1804                 Moved from Hunter's Hill to log house, original
                       Hermitage.
  1804 July 4          Resigned from superior court.
  1805-6               Entertained Aaron Burr.
  1806 May 30          Duel with Charles Dickinson.
  1809                 Nephew of Mrs. Jackson adopted, named Andrew
                       Jackson, Jr.
  1812 June 5          Offered services of Tennessee Volunteers to the
                       United States Government in the War of 1812.
  1813 January 7       Started for New Orleans with Tennessee Militia.
  1813 February 15     Arrived at Natchez.
  1813 March 25        Started home from Natchez.
  1813 April 22        Returned to Hermitage.
  1813 September 4     Wounded in affray with Thomas H. and Jesse Benton.
  1813 October 11      Started with his command for the Creek War.
  1813 November 3      Battle of Talluschatches, Creek War.
  1813 November 9      Battle of Talladega, Creek War.
  1814 January 22      Battle of Emuckfau, Creek War.
  1814 January 24      Battle of Enotocopco, Creek War.
  1814 March 27        Battle of the Horseshoe, Creek War.
  1814 April 19        Appointed Brigadier-General United States Army.
  1814 May 1           Appointed Major-General United States Army, Vice
                       William Henry Harrison, resigned.
  1814 August 10       Had treaty with Creeks signed.
  1814 September 9     Started first Florida campaign.
  1814 December 2      Arrived at New Orleans for the defense of the city.
  1814 December 16     Declared martial law in New Orleans.
  1814 December 23     First battle in defense of New Orleans.
  1815 January 1       Second battle in defense of New Orleans.
  1815 January 8       Won battle of New Orleans.
  1815 March 5         Caused the arrest of Judge Dominick A. Hall,
                       United States District Judge at New Orleans.
  1815 March 13        Abrogated martial law at New Orleans.
  1815 March 24        Fined $1,000 by Judge Dominick A. Hall for
                       contempt of court, which Jackson paid the same
                       day, and which was refunded by Congress with
                       interest in 1842.
  1815 May 15          Arrived at Nashville from New Orleans.
  1817 December 26     Entered upon second Florida campaign.
  1818 April 28        Caused the execution of Arbuthnot and Ambrister.
  1819 February 8      House of Representatives in Congress sustained
                       Jackson's conduct in the Florida campaign.
  1819 Jan. and Feb.   Visited eastern cities.
  1819 February        Spain ceded Florida to the United States.
  1819                 Built Brick Hermitage.
  1821                 Appointed by President Monroe governor of Florida.
  1821 May 31          Resigned from the army.
  1821 July 17         Took possession of Florida as governor, and it
                       became a territory of the United States.
  1821 October         Resigned as governor of Florida, and returned to
                       Hermitage.
  1822 July 20         Nominated for President by the Legislature of
                       Tennessee.
  1823                 Offered and declined mission to Mexico.
  1823 October         Elected to the United States Senate from Tennessee.
  1823                 Contributed major part of funds for building
                       Presbyterian church in Hermitage neighborhood.
  1824 March 4         Nominated for President by the Pennsylvania
                       convention.
  1824 November 4      Received plurality of electoral votes for
                       President.
  1825 February 9      Defeated for President in the House of
                       Representatives in Congress by John Quincy Adams,
                       who received the vote of thirteen states, Jackson
                       seven, William H. Crawford of Georgia four.
  1825                 Lafayette visited the Hermitage.
  1825 October         Resigned from the United States Senate.
  1825 October         Renominated for President by the Legislature of
                       Tennessee.
  1826 or 1827         Communion Sunday, date uncertain, promised Mrs.
                       Jackson to join the church when out of politics.
  1828 November        Elected President of the United States.
  1828 December 22     Death of Mrs. Jackson.
  1829 January 17      Left Hermitage for his inauguration.
  1829 March 4         Inaugurated President.
  1830 April 13        Offered toast: "Our federal union, it must be
                       preserved," at Jefferson's birthday dinner.
  1830 December 7      Recommended that the Southern Indians be removed
                       to the Indian Territory.
  1831                 Two wings added to the Hermitage.
  1832 July 10         Vetoed bill re-chartering the Bank of the United
                       States.
  1832 November        Re-elected President of the United States.
  1832 December 10     Issued proclamation to nullifiers of South
                       Carolina.
  1833 June 26         Harvard College conferred the degree of LL.D.
  1833 September 23    Ordered withdrawal of deposits from the Bank of
                       the United States.
  1834                 Hermitage damaged by fire; repaired. No changes
                       since.
  1834 March 28        Censured by Senate by resolution for removing
                       public deposits from the Bank of the United States.
  1835 December 29     Treaty with the Cherokee Indians for their removal
                       to Indian Territory.
  1835 January 8       Proclaimed the payment in full of national debt of
                       the United States.
  1837 January 16      Resolution passed in the Senate expunging the
                       resolution of censure of 1834.
  1837 March 4         Issued farewell address to people of the United
                       States.
  1839                 Became a member of the Presbyterian Church near
                       the Hermitage.
  1840 January 18      Visited New Orleans.
  1845 June 8          Sunday, at 6 P.M., died.
  1845 June 10         Buried by the side of Mrs. Jackson at the
                       Hermitage.


                          _The Carriage House_

 In 1897, Col. Andrew Jackson, from whom most of the relics were
purchased, sold to the Association the interesting old coach used by
Jackson at the White House for state, ceremonial, and social purposes
and for several trips to the Hermitage. The trip to the Hermitage took
thirty days' time. His journeys were a continual ovation.

The skeleton of the phaeton is all that is left of the beautiful vehicle
presented to General Jackson by the "Democratic-Republican" citizens of
Philadelphia. It was made from timbers taken from the old ship
Constitution. The phaeton in which General Jackson rode with Martin Van
Buren to the latter's inauguration was damaged by fire in Cincinnati,
where the Jackson relics were stored before being acquired by the
Ladies' Hermitage Association. (Photograph is on wall.)

Stone doorstep in front of carriage house was presented to Col. W. W.
Parks by General Jackson. Given to the Ladies' Hermitage Association by
his granddaughters, Misses Annie and Grace Handly.

Display boards on the walls show photostats of the Library of Congress
letters of Rachel Jackson, personal accounts of life at the Hermitage
taken from letters and histories, and pamphlets relating to the life and
times of President Andrew Jackson, presented to the Hermitage by C.
Lawrence Winn, great-grandson of Andrew Jackson, Jr.

Anvil, used in shoeing General Jackson's race horses.

Carpenter's plane, said to have been used by William McCreary in
building the Hermitage. Given by Stanley F. Horn.


                              _The Museum_

 The brick house now used as a museum, which was restored and built on
the original foundation, was formerly used for house servants. This is
the only piece of restoration on the grounds, the brick having been made
on the Hermitage grounds years ago.




THE MUSEUM


    [Illustration: The Museum]


                               SOUTH ROOM


  On the Walls:
    1. Lace veil intended for Mrs. Rachel Jackson to wear at Jackson's
          inauguration in 1829, but her death occurred shortly before.
          The veil was presented by the ladies of Cincinnati. Each
          letter in the name Jackson is made from a different pattern of
          lace. The twenty-four stars above the name represent the 24
          states, and in the center is an emblem of peace. This veil was
          inherited by Miss Mary Wilcox from her grandmother, Mrs.
          Andrew J. Donelson. Miss Wilcox presented the veil to the
          Tennessee Woman's Historical Association, which, in turn,
          presented it to the Hermitage Association.
    2. Pictures of Jackson's cabinet members in 1829.
    3. Part of original parlor draperies.
    4. Part of original bedroom draperies.
    5. Jackson's portrait by Michael Nachtreib, a copy of the Dodge
          Miniature, is the likeness of Jackson widely used on stamp and
          currency issues.
    6. Part of original parlor curtains.


                               Case No. 1


  Shelf No. 1:
    1. Gold sword presented to Andrew Jackson by the City of
          Philadelphia after the Battle of New Orleans.
    2. Unique gun cane.
    3. Turkish sword presented to General Jackson.
    4. Cannon ball used in the Battle of New Orleans, January 8, 1815.
          Presented by Mrs. Burrell Jackson.
    5. Sword captured at the Battle of New Orleans by General Jackson.
          Bought by the Association in 1897.
    6. Cavalry sabre, captured at the Battle of New Orleans, bearing the
          coat of arms of the English Government and the initials G. R.
          (George Rex, III). Presented by W. E. Metzger.
    7. Blade of sword presented to General Jackson by the citizens of
          New Orleans. This sword was bequeathed to Col. Andrew Jackson
          Coffee. Presented by Alexander D. Coffee.
    8. Air gun and pump.


  Shelf No. 2:
    9. Leather shot pouch belonging to Andrew Jackson, Jr.
    10. Sword said to have been used by Jackson at the Battle of New
          Orleans. Presented by Mrs. W. M. Calhoun.
    11. Sword used by General Coffee at the Battle of New Orleans.
    12. Piece of dining room floor laid in 1835 and removed in 1894.
    13. Piece of the old bridge built by General Jackson's troops to
          cross a swamp at the head of the Bayou Grand near Fort
          Barrancas, Fla.
    14. Gold sword presented to General Jackson July 4, 1822, by the
          State of Tennessee for his services at the Battle of New
          Orleans. It was bequeathed to Andrew J. Donelson, his former
          secretary. Purchased by the Ladies' Hermitage Association in
          1940.


  Shelf No. 3:
    15. Wax candle found in Cornwallis' tent in Yorktown the night of
          his surrender to Washington. Presented to General Jackson who
          highly prized it and lighted it on each anniversary of the
          Battle of New Orleans.
    16. Foresight of one of the cannons used at the Battle of New
          Orleans. Presented by Capt. E. W. Averell to Mrs. Bettie M.
          Donelson for the Hermitage Association.
    18. Old door knob, removed from one of the doors.
    19. Pieces of marble from the tomb of Mary Washington, mother of
          General George Washington; the cornerstone was laid by Jackson
          in 1833. Presented by Walter B. Parmer.
    20. Military Regalia of General Jackson, presented by Joseph Horton
          Fall and John Hill Eakin.
    21. United States cutlass used on the American Brig Carolina in a
          fight against the British in 1814-15, under General Jackson.
    22. Silver mounted cane of General Jackson.
    23. Italian carved cane, presented to General Jackson.
    24. Gold-headed cane presented to General Jackson by Lt. Col.
          William L. Harneys, 2nd U. S. Dragoons, Sept. 30, 1838.
    25. Walking cane of hickory.
    26. Gun cane.
    27. Cane made from wood that grew at the tomb of General Washington
          at Mt. Vernon. Presented by John Bigelow to General Jackson.
    28. Folding bamboo camp chair.
    29. Walking stick, presented to President Jackson by Thomas Hart
          Benton and John C. Calhoun and presented to the Hermitage
          Association by Mrs. J. A. Mitchell, Macon, Ga.


  Shelf No. 4:
    30. Shakespeare volume given and inscribed by Jackson to Henry L.
          Rucker of Cincinnati, 1837. Presented by Mrs. C. P. J. Mooney,
          1950.
    31. A British Dragoon flintlock holster pistol found on Jackson's
          battlefield at New Orleans in 1850. Presented by W. E.
          Metzger.
    32. A stone from the grave of Andrew Jackson, father of General
          Jackson, who died in 1767. The grave is at Waxhaws Churchyard,
          S. C., and the stone was procured by Mr. Walter Lacoste Wilson
          and sent to Mrs. Rachel Jackson Lawrence, who presented it to
          the Hermitage Association.
    33. Dueling pistol (one of a pair) owned by General Jackson.
          Presented by Miss Spon. The whereabouts of the other is not
          known.
    34. Pistol used at New Orleans. Presented by Bettie Hoffstetter
          Reise.
    35. English bayonet embedded in cypress root, found on the
          battlefield at New Orleans and presented to General Jackson in
          1844.
    36. The sword and belt of Capt. Samuel Jackson, C. S. A., grandson
          of General Jackson.
    37. Powder flask used by General Jackson at the Battle of New
          Orleans.
    38. Old pair of shears.
    39. Rifle ornamented with plates of German silver, was given by
          General Jackson to Andrew Jackson, Jr. It was given by the
          Jacksons at the Hermitage in 1861 when a call was made for
          guns by the Southern Confederacy. Purchased at Clarksville,
          Tennessee, by a Federal officer whose son sold it to Mrs. B.
          F. Wilson, who presented it to the Ladies' Hermitage
          Association.


  Shelf No. 5:
    40. Picture of Judge Spruce Macay, Justice of the North Carolina
          Supreme Court, law preceptor of Andrew Jackson. Gift of
          Archibald Henderson of North Carolina.
    41. Jackson's license to practice law, 1787, North Carolina.
    42. Commission of Major-General, issued to Andrew Jackson, 1801, by
          Archibald Roane, Governor of Tennessee. Given by J. McGavock
          Dickinson.
    43. Healy's account of his visit to the Hermitage to paint Jackson's
          portrait as commissioned by Louis Philippe.
    44. Framed Declaration of Independence.
    45. Letter to General Jackson from Bishop Henry Conwell, Roman
          Catholic Bishop of Philadelphia, written when he was in Rome,
          containing a picture to Pope Leo XII. Presented by Mrs. Bettie
          M. Donelson.


                               Case No. 2


  Shelf No. 1:
    1. Door scraper, one of a pair used on the front porch.
    1A. Original bedspread used until recently in Jackson's room, with
          initials R. J. in center.
    2. Mexican leggings, hand-tooled leather. Presented to Major-General
          Andrew Jackson by Gov. Sam Houston.
    3. Old account books of Jackson's & Hutchings' Store, December 26,
          1803-June 15, 1804.
    4. Part of one of the original lace curtains.
    5. Fringe made and used by Rachel Jackson for a bedspread. Presented
          by Miss Emma Hoffstetter.
    6. Sample of original chintz in Jackson's bedroom. Presented by Miss
          Cora Watson, having been given by Rachel Jackson to a member
          of her family, who were the Jacksons' neighbors.
    7. Lace collar given by Rachel Jackson to Mrs. Governor Carroll, who
          gave it to her niece, Miss Bradford. At her death, at the age
          of 95, it was inherited by her niece, Mrs. Lizzie Miller
          Jones, who presented it to the Association.


  Shelf No. 2:
    8. Flat silver used at the Hermitage and at the White House, and two
          mahogany cases in which it was kept. Silver knife and
          corkscrew which belonged to Jackson. Presented by Mrs. Ramsey
          McIver, II.


  Shelf No. 3:
    9. Gold watch of the adopted son, Andrew Jackson, Jr.
    9A. Memorandum book of Sarah York and Andrew Jackson, Jr., 1859, and
          his vest.
    10. Daguerreotype of Captain Samuel Jackson, C.S.A., grandson of
          General Andrew Jackson, who was killed at the Battle of
          Chickamauga.
    11. Two daguerreotypes of Andrew Jackson, Jr., adopted son of
          General and Mrs. Jackson.
    12. Miniature of Mrs. Rachel Jackson Lawrence, only daughter of the
          Jacksons' adopted son. Her visiting card and that of her
          husband, which were given by Mrs. Richard Plater.
    13. Portion of a gold link chain purchased by General Jackson in
          Philadelphia, 1831, and presented to his daughter-in-law,
          Sarah York Jackson. Given by Mrs. Joseph H. Thompson. The
          other portion of this chain was purchased from Miss Fannie O.
          Walton, great-great-niece of Mrs. Jackson.
    14. The christening robe was worn by the children of Andrew and
          Sarah York Jackson.
    15. The baby cap, which belonged to Rachel Jackson Lawrence, was
          given by her grandson, C. Lawrence Winn.
    15A. Heart pin cushion, made by Rachel Jackson Lawrence of dress
          scraps from the Hermitage household. Given by Mrs. R. H.
          Oliphant, whose mother received it from a member of the
          Jackson family. The second heart pincushion, also made by
          Rachel Jackson Lawrence, the pearls from the Sarah York
          Jackson necklace, and the sample of the lining of the Jackson
          coach were acquired from Miss Effie McIver, whose forebears
          were close friends of the Jacksons.
    16. Pearls which were given to Mrs. Sarah York Jackson, wife of
          Andrew Jackson, Jr., by President Jackson, when she went to
          the White House as a bride in 1831. She wore them to
          receptions given in her honor as a bride and also later as
          lady of the White House. The pearls have adorned seven brides
          in the immediate Jackson family. Purchased from the family by
          the Hermitage Association.
    17. Small knife and fork set; were given by General Jackson to his
          grandson, Andrew Jackson, III.
    18. Invitation to General Jackson's funeral. Presented by Mrs. M. G.
          Buckner.
    19. Presidential ticket (printed on satin) announcing Andrew
          Jackson's candidacy for the Presidency. Presented by N. B.
          Patterson, of Chicago. Printed by his grandfather, Col. J. B.
          Patterson, who was subsequently editor of the _Jacksonian_.
    20. Bank book of General Jackson, dated 1810.
    21. Physician's statement, 1826. Presented by Mrs. Leonard K.
          Whitworth.
    22. Knife of General Jackson. Presented by J. H. Baker.
    23. Engraving of Judge John Overton, Jackson's law partner and
          life-long friend. Presented by his great-grandson, J. McGavock
          Dickinson, Jr.
    24. Letter from Andrew Jackson to the Hon. John Overton, August 21,
          1831. Presented by Judge John H. DeWitt.
    25. General Jackson's ruler, with outstanding dates of his life
          engraved thereon.
    26. Pair of scales for weighing gold coin.
    27. General Jackson's lancet, used by Dr. Esselman when he bled his
          patient. Presented by Mrs. Rachel Jackson Lawrence.
    28. Original photograph of Dr. Benjamin Rohrer, physician to
          President Jackson during the entire time he was in the White
          House. Presented by Cordelia Jackson, 1922.
    29. Latin Bible belonging to General Jackson, printed in Anno
          MDXCIII.
    30. Prayer book of General Jackson.
    31. Bible of Rachel Jackson.
    32. Brass compass of General Jackson which was like one used by
          George Washington at Valley Forge.
    33. Hair of General Jackson in two frames, and lock of his hair
          presented by Mrs. Jack M. Bass.
    34. Jackson's peace medal.
    35. Jackson's temperance medal.
    36. Billfold purchased by General Jackson in Tuscumbia, Ala., May 3,
          1828.
    37. Pocket comb belonging to General Jackson.
    38. Miniature gloves made by an admirer and presented to Andrew
          Jackson.
    39. Congressional medal, presented to Major-General Andrew Jackson
          after the Battle of New Orleans.
    40. Picture of General Jackson and lock of his hair.
    41. Porcelain French pipe.
    42. Real amber pipe.
    43. Pipe from the Alamo, San Antonio, Texas, where Davy Crockett
          died.
    44. Turkish wooden pipe.
    45. Two snuff boxes.
    46. Sunglass used to light his pipe. Presented by Roy Roe of Mobile,
          Ala., to Mrs. George Nelson of Murfreesboro, who presented it
          to the Association.
    47. Dutch pipe.
    48. Jackson's watch, engraved: "Presented to General Andrew Jackson
          by W. W. C. January 12, 1815." Given by Rogers C. Caldwell in
          memory of his mother.
    49. General Jackson's Prayer Book.
    50. The stick pin worn by President Jackson. Presented by Mr. and
          Mrs. T. Graham Hall, in memory of his mother, Mrs. Jennie
          McIver Hall.
    51. Gold-rimmed glasses worn by General Jackson until a few years
          before his death and presented by him to his daughter-in-law,
          Mrs. Sarah York Jackson. She gave them to the only
          granddaughter, Rachel Jackson, who presented them to John
          Marshall Lawrence. Purchased from him by the Association.
    52. Miniature of Rachel Jackson, worn by General Jackson
          continuously until his death and only removed at night and
          placed with his Bible on a table by his bed.


  Shelf No. 4:
    53. "The Works of Lord Byron," presented to Jackson by Earl.
          Interesting letter from Byron to publishers of this volume is
          shown in Case H in opposite room.
    54. Tortoise shell card case which belonged to R. E. W. Earl, given
          by Mrs. Stanley Horn.
    54A. Card case and purse of Earl's, presented by C. L. Winn. Pen
          portrait of Earl.
    55. Jackson Electoral Ticket, 1832. He was overwhelmingly reelected,
          receiving 219 votes out of 286.
    55A. Miniature of Jackson, given by Mrs. Benjamin A. Brakenbury, of
          Santa Barbara, Calif.
    56. Jackson's Cabinet, 1829. Gift from Jackson to Major A. J.
          Donelson, Secretary to President Jackson.
    57. New York, Nashville, Clarksville weekly papers of 1845,
          containing notices of the death of Jackson. Presented by W. M.
          Drane of Clarksville in 1920.
    58. Badge worn at Jackson's funeral. Presented by Mrs. Frank
          Jefferson Blodgett of New York City, through Mrs. Lindsay
          Coleman of Nashville.
    59. Badge used in commemoration of the death of Jackson. Presented
          by Charles Costleigh in memory of members of his family.
    60. Letter from Thomas Jefferson, Monticello, 1821, regarding James
          Leander Cathcart.
    61. Silver spoons, one of which is from a set of Jackson's spoons
          and the other from a set of Felix Grundy's. The handles were
          molded into Columbia Liberty Bells.
    62. Silver cheese scoop, engraved, "G.W.C., Hermitage, Jan. 11,
          1860," Editor of Harper's Weekly, to whom it was presented by
          the Jackson family.
    63. Shaving case used by General Jackson.
    64. Water color of Stockley place in Virginia, the home of Rachel
          Jackson's grandfather.
    65. Gavel made of wood taken from the birthplace of Rachel Donelson,
          wife of Andrew Jackson. Presented by Mrs. Myrtle Blair Motley,
          Wm. Pitt Chapter, Chatham, Va.
    66. Mortar and pestle used for compounding medicine.
    67. Case for aquamarine necklace of Rachel Jackson (displayed on
          figure in opposite room).
    68. Rachel Jackson's night cap. Presented by Mrs. John H. Cunningham
          of San Antonio, great-granddaughter of Mrs. William Watson, a
          neighbor and friend of Mrs. Jackson who was with her during
          her last days and to whom Mrs. Jackson gave the cap.
    68A. Preliminary sketch made by Sully of one of his portraits of
          Jackson.
    69. Sewing case made and used by Rachel Jackson.
    70. Long beaded purse, made by Rachel Jackson.
    71. Spinning wheel in bottle presented to General Jackson.
    72. Flat iron used at the Hermitage during Jackson's lifetime,
          presented by Andrew Jackson Baker, Jr.
    73. Miniature of Jackson in youth.
    74. Pair of gold-rimmed spectacles used by Mrs. Jackson.
    75. Needlepoint bag.
    76. Jackson beaded bag. Loaned by Tennessee State Library.
    77. Miniature frame of onyx and gold inlay, containing lock of
          General Jackson's hair. Presented by Mrs. Joseph H. Crenshaw
          of Ft. Royal, Va.
    78. Work bag of Rachel Jackson.
    78A. Pearl comb, which belonged to Rachel Jackson. Given to her
          niece, Rachel Donelson Eckford, then to Mrs. H. J. Darden, who
          willed it to her cousin, Dr. M. M. Cullom. Presented by Dr.
          Cullom to the Association.
    79. Rachel Jackson's pearl ring.
    80. Set of Mosaic jewelry consisting of belt clasp, necklace and ear
          rings, each medallion representing a different ancient temple,
          purchased by Andrew Jackson from widow of Stephen Decatur.


  Shelf No. 5:
    81. Part of letter written by Jackson to his wife, Rachel, regarding
          the Hermitage church and its pastor, the Rev. William Hume.
          Given by one of the latter's descendants, Leland Hume.
    82. Painting of the Hermitage church, by Cornelius Hankins.
    83. Poem on the death of Mrs. Jackson.
    84. Letter from John Adams, Quincy, Mass., March 25, 1822 to James
          L. Cathcart.
    85. Letter written by General Jackson to William Donelson, November
          29, 1842. Presented by Miss Matilda Allison Porter, 1946.
    86. Small portrait of Andrew Jackson, painted by Franklin Witcher of
          New York, for Jackson's Presidential campaign. Bought from a
          relative Of the artist.
    87. Springfield, Jefferson County, Miss., where Andrew and Rachel
          Jackson were married in 1791. Presented by Daniel Clay
          Bramlette of Woodville, Miss.
    88. A letter of General Jackson to Mrs. Jackson, January 29, 1824.
          Presented by Judge John H. DeWitt.
    89. Hermitage (or Ephesus) church membership roll 1824-1839
          including the Jacksons, given by C. L. Winn.
    90. A photostat of Jackson's list of contributions for repairs of
          the Hermitage church and suggested alterations made by Andrew
          Jackson Donelson, given by Stanley F. Horn.


                               Case No. 3


  Shelf No. 1:
    1. The green and white covered dishes, the six flowered soup plates,
          and the small knife and fork, which all belonged to the
          Jacksons, were given by Mr. and Mrs. T. Graham Hall, in memory
          of his mother, Mrs. Jennie McIver Hall, a friend of the
          Jackson family.
    2. China platter and six matching soup plates, which were the
          Jacksons'. Given by Mr. and Mrs. Sheffield Clark, Jr., in
          memory of Mrs. Sheffield Clark, Sr.
    3. Brass dinner gong.
    3A. Pottery pitcher, given by Wylie B. Ewing, of Delray, Fla. Made
          for a dinner given in honor of Jackson, June 11, 1834, in
          Wheeling. W. Va.


  Shelves No. 2 and No. 3:
    4. Forty-three pieces of gold and white china, used at the White
          House during Jackson's administration.
    5. Pieces of buff and gold china used constantly in the White House.
          From a set of 600 pieces, which was given to Mrs. Rachel
          Jackson Lawrence when she was married.
    6. Cup, saucer, plate, fork and spoon used by President Franklin D.
          Roosevelt on the occasion of his visit to the Hermitage,
          November 17, 1934.
    7. Six silver tablespoons of the Jacksons, loaned by Vanderbilt
          University.


  Shelf No. 4:
    8. Silver basket.
    9. Some of the valuable Jackson-Decatur silver, which included 16
          round and oval dishes, which were purchased by Jackson from
          the widow of Commodore Decatur, and used constantly for years
          at the Hermitage. (See letter regarding the purchase in
          Document Standard in Case B.)
    10. Jackson's memorandum to his secretary regarding the purchase of
          the Decatur silver.
    11. Salad fork and spoon, which were presented by Mrs. Andrew
          Jackson, Jr., to Miss Sarah Livingston on the occasion of her
          marriage to Judge Beard, at Tulip Grove, and were presented to
          the Hermitage Association by her daughters, Mrs. Thos. Pierce
          of St. Louis, Mrs. Beverly R. McKennie, and Mrs. Weaver
          Harris.
    11A. Silver compote, one of the pieces of the Decatur silver.
    12. Old English silver coffee pot on trivet, presented to Wm. H.
          Calhoun, Nashville, in 1848 by Andrew Jackson, Jr. These
          pieces were in daily use during General Jackson's residence at
          the White House. Loaned by Vanderbilt University.
    12A. Pieces of flat silver in daily use at the Hermitage.
    13. Silver sugar tongs.
    14. Silver muffinier or sugar shaker.
    15. Pair of silver napkin rings.
    16. Silver cups, marked A. J. and R. J., in daily use by General and
          Mrs. Jackson.
    17. General Jackson's Communion Cup.
    18. China cup, out of which General Jackson drank on the day of his
          death, and spoon used daily.
    18A. A buff and gold china tea cup and saucer, given to Mrs. C. A.
          R. Thompson by Rachel Jackson Lawrence. Presented to the
          Hermitage by the heirs of Miss Annie Kenneth Thompson.
    19. China cup and saucer, of Louis Philippe, purchased by Jackson
          from his stewart, Boulanger. Obtained from the McIver family.
    20. Original blue plate, one of set of china used by General Jackson
          at the Hermitage. (English reproductions of this plate are
          sold in the Souvenir Shop.)


  Shelf No. 5:
    21. Silver in daily use at the Hermitage.
    22. A pair of coasters with glass decanters.
    23. Salt cellar.
    24. Caster with glass bottles.
    25. Silver nut crackers and picks.
    26. Wine cart on wheels (mate in dining room).
    27. Wine glass used by President Jackson at the White House,
          1829-1837. Given by Bettie Hoffstetter Reise.
    27A. Hock or wine glass, used at the dinner in honor of Lafayette.
          Given by a member of the Jackson family to Mrs. W. L.
          Granbery, a friend and neighbor at Tulip Grove, the adjoining
          plantation. Presented to the Association by Mr. and Mrs. J. T.
          Granbery.
    28. Bohemian decanter.
    29. Cut glass used at the White House during Jackson's
          administration, including a decanter, eight wine glasses, five
          tumblers.
    30. Silver and cut glass pickle jar.


                               Case No. 4


  Shelf No. 1:
    1. Letter from President Jackson to Major Andrew J. Donelson,
          Louisville, 1837.
    2. Letter from Mrs. Heyne, presenting shell letter racks to Mrs.
          Jackson (shell racks on mantel in Earl's room).
    3. Letters of General Jackson, May 24, 1833.
    4. Letter from Thos. Jordan, requesting appointment as Revenue Agent
          for the State of Maine, initialed "A. J." with memorandum.
    5. Letter from Columbus, Ohio, supporters of Jackson, December 12,
          1832, with notation in Jackson's handwriting.
    6. Communication from Andrew Jackson to the U. S. Senate, nominating
          members of his Cabinet: "Edward Livingston of Louisiana,
          Secretary of State; Lewis McLane, of Delaware, Secretary of
          the Treasury; Lewis Cass, of Michigan, Secretary of War; Levi
          Woodbury, of New Hampshire, Secretary of the Navy; R. B.
          Taney, of Maryland, Attorney General of the United States."
          Dated, December 7, 1831.


  Shelf No. 2:
    7. "The Jackson Wreath," published 1829, includes an interesting
          account of the last hours and death of Rachel Jackson.
          Presented by Mrs. James A. Wemyss, of Gallatin, who inherited
          it from her great-grandfather, John Branch, Secretary of the
          Navy in Jackson's cabinet.
    7A. Invitation from General Jackson to his neighbors, Dr. and Mrs.
          Doyle, Fountain of Health, to dine at the Hermitage, Dec. 26,
          1840. Presented by Miss Decatur J. Page, descendant of the
          Doyles. Copy of the Globe, Dec. 5, 1837, inscribed "Jackson,
          Fountain of Health" which was the nearest Post Office. Given
          by Mrs. Lee Hunt.
    8. General Jackson's Farewell Address (1837), printed in satin. Was
          carried as a banner in his funeral procession in Nashville,
          1845. Statement of Wm. W. Bell, of Chicago, who presented it.
    9. Inaugural address of General Andrew Jackson, March 4, 1833.
    10. Jackson's Message refusing to re-charter the U. S. Bank, July
          10, 1833.
    10A. Jackson's Nullification Proclamation.


  Shelf No. 3:
    11. Communication of John Quincy Adams, 1819, to John Rodgers,
          President of the Navy Board.
    12. Invitation to the Eighth of January Ball, 1831, Nashville,
          issued to Miss Clementine Boyd.
    13. Letter from Emperor of San Domingo to Commodore Elliott,
          September 6, 1832, with notation by Jackson.
    14. Extract from letter, signed Frederick P. Ladd, Boston, August
          29, 1829, regarding Jackson's candidacy for President.
    15. Letter to Andrew Jackson from N. Gevelot, Dec. 28, 1833,
          presenting bust of Jackson.
    16. Letter regarding supplies ordered for White House, June 19,
          1829.
    17. Letter from James Madison to M. Cathcart.


                               Case No. 5


  Shelf No. 1:
    1. Letter from Charleston, S. C., officials, expressing
          gratification over Major-General Jackson's proposed visit to
          the city, March 7, 1821.
    2. Commodore Elliott's invitation to Martin Van Buren to visit Navy
          Yard.
    3. Address to citizens of Connecticut by the friends of Andrew
          Jackson in 1828.
    4. Medallions, illustrating stories from the Bible. On the reverse
          side is the story itself. This unique set was presented to
          General Jackson by an admirer.
    5. Pamphlet containing refutation of charges made about Jackson's
          marriage by political enemies in Cincinnati, 1827.
    6. Pamphlet in vindication of General Jackson regarding the
          executions of Arbuthnot and Ambrister, 1824.
    7. Wooden statuette given by Jackson to his granddaughter, Rachel,
          whose family gave it to the Hermitage after her death in 1923.
          The figures represent Louis Philippe and Jackson, saluting one
          another upon the payment of the indemnity due from France. The
          carving on the base represents the vessels bringing the gold
          from France; the hickory tree symbolizes the firmness of
          Jackson in demanding payment; the circle formed by the arms of
          the two symbolizes the lasting friendship between them. Carved
          by Pierre Joseph Landry, comrade-in-arms of General Jackson at
          the Battle of New Orleans; this was presumably presented to
          Jackson by the sculptor.
    8. Pamphlet on the Battle of New Orleans.
    9. Cartoon showing Jackson receiving cash payment from French
          cavalry March 1836.
    10. Copy of letter of Commodore Elliott, presenting the sarcophagus
          of Emperor Severus to General Jackson (see [Page 55]), given
          by the Hon. John Wesley Gaines.
    11. Copy of General Jackson's letter declining the sarcophagus,
          presented by the Hon. John Wesley Gaines. (See [Page 56]).
    12. Photographs of the sarcophagus, now on the grounds of the
          Smithsonian Institute, given by former Secretary of War, Jacob
          McGavock Dickinson.
    13. Copy of New York _Herald_ of June 25, 1845, with pictures and
          description of Jackson's funeral procession. Given by Mrs.
          James A. Wemyss, of Gallatin.
    14. Jackson's first message to Congress, December 8, 1829, printed
          on silk. Presented by Mrs. Kendall Stickney, Monrovia,
          California.


                          NORTH ROOM (MUSEUM)


  On the Walls:
    1. Bronze bust of General Jackson by Belle Kinney.
    2. Battle of New Orleans. Presented by C. F. Gunther, of Chicago,
          Endicott & Co., Lithographers, published by T. Yeager, Race
          Street, Philadelphia.
    3. Print of General Jackson at New Orleans.
    4. Portrait of Jackson.
    5. Engraving of the Hermitage. This is not correctly drawn. (Francis
          Strickland, Architect, Lith. of Endicott & Co., N. Y.).
    6. Engraving of Jackson.
    7. Picture of Jackson at the Hermitage, 1830. Given by J. McGavock
          Dickinson.
    9. Land Grant signed by President Jackson. Given by J. McGavock
          Dickinson.
    10. Appointment of Chas. A. Anderson as secretary to the French
          Court by Jackson, 1836. Presented in memory of Ewin Lamar
          Davis by his wife.
    11. Illustrated Map of Nashville 1832.
    12. Certificate of Major-General Andrew Jackson's membership in the
          Hibernian Society, March, 1819.
    13. Three pictures of Uncle Alfred, colored servant, born 1803 and
          died in 1901. He lived in the log house back of the mansion
          and is buried in the garden next to the Jacksons' tomb. Given
          by Dr. Harry Vaughan and Mrs. Paul E. DeWitt.
    14. Equestrian Statue of Jackson. This picture hung in President
          James K. Polk's room at the White house. Presented by Mrs.
          George William Fall.
    14A. Engraving of General Jackson from a painting by Thomas Sully.
    15. Death of Pakenham. Presented by C. F. Gunther, of Chicago,
          Endicott & Co., Lithographers, published by T. Yeager, Race
          Street, Philadelphia.
    16. Blueprints showing the battlefield of Chalmette at New Orleans.
          Presented by Hon. John Wesley Gaines.
    17. Drawing by Norman Marsh of original Hermitage. Copy of print
          from the collection of Mrs. Samuel Heiskell, now at the
          University of North Carolina.
    18. Engraving of Andrew Jackson given by Mr. and Mrs. Whitefoord
          Cole, Jr., in memory of his mother.


  Case No. 1
    1. Engraving of General Jackson.
    2. Clothing worn by General Andrew Jackson: dressing gowns and
          slippers, wool socks used when riding in winter weather; night
          shirts, pen marked, "Andrew Jackson," and numbered in
          indelible ink.
    3. Account books used in stores owned by Jackson--Gallatin, 1803;
          Hunter's Hill, 1804; Clover Bottom, 1805.
    4. Picture of "Aunt Hannah," Mrs. Jackson's personal maid, who was
          with her at her death.
    5. Writing case inscribed "Presented to Andrew Jackson, President of
          the U. S., from the State of New Hampshire."


  Case No. 2
    British uniform (coat and waistcoat) taken at the Battle of New
          Orleans. Loaned by Andrew Jackson Lawrence, grandson of Andrew
          Jackson, Jr.


  Case No. 3
    Uniform and hat of Major John T. Reid, who fought with General
          Jackson in the Battle of New Orleans. Presented by his
          grandson, Mr. Maury T. Reid.


                               Case No. 4


  Shelf No. 1:
    1. Original letter of Amos Kendall, Nov. 20, 1829, and notation in
          Jackson's handwriting "Mr. Kendalls letter and remarks on my
          plans on National Bank."
    2. Photograph of Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, in costume for a January 8
          Ball. Mrs. Dorris was one of the four organizers of the
          Ladies' Hermitage Association, the first secretary and later
          Regent, and a life-long worker in the preservation of the
          Hermitage. Book, "Preservation of the Hermitage" by Mrs.
          Dorris (Copies may be purchased in Souvenir Shop).
    3. Small Liberty Bell, made from the overflow of the Columbia
          Liberty Bell. These small bells were purchased by patriotic
          associations to be rung on patriotic occasions.
    3A. Mourning badge worn at the time of the death of General Andrew
          Jackson.
    4. Photograph of Mrs. Rachel Jackson Lawrence, Jackson's favorite
          grandchild and namesake of Mrs. Jackson.
    5. Photograph of Colonel Andrew Jackson, III, whose wife, Mrs. Amy
          Jackson, conceived the idea of the Hermitage Association and
          it was from this couple that most of the relics were
          purchased.
    6. Picture of Emily Donelson, white house hostess during Jackson's
          Administration, presented by Mrs. Frank Klapthor. Frame given
          by Felice Ferrell.
    7. Bust by Zolnay of Mrs. Mary L. Baxter, first Regent of the
          Ladies' Hermitage Association. Also an appeal to Association
          members dated 1895 and signed by Mrs. Nathaniel Baxter,
          Regent.
    8. Booklet and program on the exercises held at the presentation of
          Jackson's statue by the State of Tennessee to the United
          States Capitol, April 11, 1928. The statue, which is by Belle
          Kinney, stands in the Capitol Rotunda.
    9. Picture of Healy, artist sent by Louis Philippe to paint Andrew
          Jackson and other prominent Americans.
    10. Original floor plan of the Hermitage (changes in this were made
          during construction).
    11. Souvenirs of President Theodore Roosevelt's visit in October,
          1907. Special Register with autograph signature.
    12. Poem to Rachel Jackson Lawrence by Emma Look Scott.
    12A. Lace scarf worn by Emily Donelson at President Jackson's
          inaugural ball. Given by Mrs. Robert S. Cheek, in memory of
          her mother, Mrs. Joseph Darling Pickslay.


  Shelf No. 2:
    13. Copy Book of Maine Student containing interesting references to
          the Presidential election of 1825, given by Mrs. Henry W.
          Dearborn, Cape Elizabeth, Maine.
    13A. Messages by President Andrew Jackson to U. S. Congress. Leather
          bound volume, printed on silk.
    13B. Commemorative and regular issue Jackson and Hermitage stamps,
          1863-1963. Given by Dr. Pembroke J. Hart.


  Shelf No. 3:
    14. Flag from the grave of Lafayette, procured for the Association
          by Miss M. E. Ford through General Horace Porter, Ambassador
          to France.
    15. Letter written by President Jackson, 1828, to Lafayette.
          Presented by Reed Schermerhorn.
    16. Appointment of Samuel B. Marshall as Marshal of Western District
          of Tennessee, April, 1831. Presented by Mrs. Joseph A. Gray.
    17. Coin token with head of Jackson. Presented by Mrs. Wm. H. Dow,
          Portland, Maine.
    18. Cane. Charles Sayers, personal friend of Jackson, cut the cane
          while walking on the Hermitage grounds with Jackson. Presented
          by Mrs. Wm. P. Delafield, Dallas, Texas.
    19. Cane. Presented by H. V. S. Negus of Bound Brook, N. J. It was a
          present from General Jackson to Mr. Negus' grandfather, James
          Engle Negus, a native of Philadelphia who had visited General
          Jackson at the Hermitage frequently as they were close
          friends.
    20. A Cane hand made by Major McCalla, who served with General
          Jackson at the Battle of New Orleans. Presented by Dr. C. A.
          Miller.
    21. Silhouette of Andrew Jackson. Presented by Mrs. Whitefoord Cole.
    23. Pictures of:
    (A) Mrs. Emily Donelson, first hostess at the White House.
    (B) Sarah York Jackson, wife of adopted son.
    (C) Mrs. Rachel Jackson Lawrence, in childhood.
    25. Picture of costume worn by Mrs. Andrew Jackson, Jr., at her
          wedding reception in the White House, and now in the National
          Historical Museum in Washington, D. C., with costumes of other
          mistresses of the White House.
    26. Centennial medal, Jackson, Michigan, designed and presented by
          James B. Field of Jackson, Michigan, in honor of General
          Jackson.
    27. Octagon House, Washington, D. C., where General Jackson was
          entertained. In a perfect state of preservation. Headquarters
          of the American Institute of Architects. Presented by Mrs.
          Cordelia Jackson, September 20, 1922.
    28. Letter to Andrew Jackson written by Robert C. Foster, and
          presented to Mrs. Harry W. Evans, Regent, by Robert Coleman
          Foster, VII, great-grandson of the writer.
    29. Watch given by Andrew Jackson to his ward, General Daniel Smith
          Donelson, upon his entry to West Point. Presented by Samuel
          Donelson, grandson of the original owner.
    30. Home of Christopher Taylor, near Jonesboro where Andrew Jackson
          boarded. Presented by L. M. McCowan.


  Shelf No. 4:
    31. Photostat copies of bill from doctor attending Rachel Jackson in
          her final illness and bill for her coffin, 1828. Presented by
          C. Norton Owen of Chicago.
    32. Photostat copy of Deed of Trust for family graveyard, in
          Hermitage garden, to John H. Eaton, John Coffee, and Andrew
          Jackson, Jr. Presented by West Morton, 1926.
    33. Bill of conveyance of slaves. Presented in memory of Jonas
          Redelsheimer.
    34. Andrew Jackson (by Earl) in the capitol of Montgomery, Alabama.
          Presented to the Ladies' Hermitage Association by Sarah E.
          Cowan, great-niece of Rachel Jackson.
    35. Itemized statement of Dr. McCorkle's bill to Andrew Jackson,
          October, 1825. Presented by Mrs. E. A. Lindsey. Of special
          interest in reference to Jackson's solicitude for the health
          and welfare of his slaves.
    36. President Jackson's Contract with his cook, Prevaux. Presented
          by Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson.
    37. Currier & Ives Print; Death bed scene of General Jackson.


                               Case No. 5

Clothing and personal possessions of the Jacksons:

The red velvet dress, worn by Sarah York Jackson at the White House
(which is the same as in the Earl portrait of her in the Hermitage
dining room) was given by her great-granddaughter, Sue Rhea Symmes
McCutcheon, in memory of her grandmother, Rachel Jackson Lawrence.
Velvet sample shows original color. The shawl, which was presented by
Mrs. W. H. Wemyss, belonged to Miss Jennie Treanor, who lived at Tulip
Grove and was a friend of the Jacksons. The letter was written by Andrew
Jackson from the White House, 1832, to his daughter-in-law, Sarah York
Jackson. The leather hat box has the following name plate: "General
Andrew Jackson, President of the United States" and the hat with the
ten-inch mourning band is the one he wore in Washington following the
death of his wife. The rosewood cane was his favorite walking stick.
Displayed with one of his suits is a linen shirt made by seamstress
Gracey who lived at the Hermitage. The lavender moire dress, which was
Rachel Jackson's, was presented by her great-granddaughter, Marion
Lawrence Symmes, and the white shawl, said to have been hers, was given
by Mrs. Bertha Pierce, of Daytona, Fla. The lace cap belonged to Rachel
Jackson, and also the aquamarine necklace (the case for this is in the
south room of the museum).


                             FLOOR STANDARD


    A. Letters from Senator Edmond de Lafayette, grandson of General
          Lafayette, concerning the French chair he gave to the
          Hermitage, which is in the Brides' Room.
    B. Steubenville Republican Ledger, reporting supper given in honor
          of Jackson's triumph, Nov. 26, 1828, and Jackson's election
          returns, 1828.
    C. Copy of National Banner and Nashville Whig, Aug. 12, 1828, given
          by C. L. Winn, great-grandson of Andrew Jackson, Jr. and Sarah
          York Jackson. Contains commendations of Jackson's Policy
          during Creek Campaign.
    D. Interesting expressions of Jackson's characteristics of
          spirituality and patriotism in a letter (January 8, 1822) to
          his ward, E. G. W. Butler, purchased from his grandson, E. G.
          Butler.
    E. Signed military orders from various officers, 1814.
    F. Pay-rolls from Capt. Haley, Llewellyn Griffith and Major H. D.
          Peire.
    G. Military orders signed by Jackson and muster roll of regiment
          commanded by Stokely Donelson, 1792. Extracts from letters of
          Capt. Thos. Preston, John Overton, and J. Winchester and
          receipts signed by Jackson.
    H. Letter from Jackson to Dr. John L. Wynn. Photostat letter from
          Rachel Jackson to her brother, Capt. John Donelson, Aug. 25,
          1821.
    I. Note of presentation of plaster cast of Powers bust, from Levi
          Woodbury and Jackson's reply. Letter from Jackson to Sarah
          York Jackson, April 14, 1835.
    J. Letter of condolence from Rachel Jackson to her niece, Catherine
          Caffery Walker, on the death of her sister, Jane Caffery Earl.
          A letter from Andrew Jackson to Catherine Caffery Walker,
          regarding business matters, presented by a descendant, Vera
          Walker Morel.
    K. Letter from D. Morrison, contractor, concerning additions to the
          house and erection of the tomb.
    Letter from Jackson to A. Donelson, presented by Mrs. P. H. Manlove.
    L. West Carolinian Extra Dec. 7, 1833, containing Jackson's message
          to Congress. This paper, which originally belonged to
          Jackson's Law instructor Judge Spruce Macay, was given by Mrs.
          Fannie McNeely of Salisbury, N. C.


                             WALL STANDARD


  Case A:
    Jackson's appointment as Judge of Superior Court, signed by John
          Sevier, December 22, 1798.
    Jackson's receipt from post office, June 2, 1826, for payments on
          his 17 newspaper subscriptions.
    Invitation to Military Ball given at Huntsville Inn, 1825, in
          commemoration of the Battle of New Orleans. Presented by Mrs.
          George Dury, to whose grandmother the invitation was issued.
    Photostatic copy of statement by Dr. Catlet regarding Dickinson
          duel.
    Letter from Jackson to Col. John Overton, regarding the former's
          "conduct in Florida" and Eaton's appeal. September 16, 1831.


  Case B:
    Letter describing White House reception for Andrew Jackson, Jr., and
          his bride, from Emily Donelson, Washington, 1831.
    Note from Jackson to his wife, February 6, 1804.
    Letter from Mrs. Stephen Decatur regarding sale of silver and china
          and Jackson's signed receipt of his purchases.
    General Jackson's orders for medicine and hospital stores, Nov. 4,
          1813.


  Case C:
    Photostatic copy of letter regarding birthplace of Jackson and
          burial place of his mother and father, from James H.
          Witherspoon, Lancaster, S. C., April 16, 1825.
    Land grant, signed by Jackson, presented by Mrs. J. C. Cartwright.
    Letter from Dr. Beaumont to Jackson, expressing solicitude for
          latter's health and presenting his book on medicine.
    Photostat of Major General Jackson's orders to his troops, Nov. 24,
          1812.
    Election returns from Globe Extra, November 15, 1832. Presented by
          Judge John H. DeWitt.


  Case D:
    Letter from Jackson to Maj. A. J. Donelson, 1837, relating the
          ovations he received en route from Washington to Nashville.
    Letter from Jackson to Maj. A. J. Donelson, July 25, 1833, giving
          instructions for Hermitage farming operations and requesting
          him to check and report on them.
    Official nomination of John H. Baker as Secretary of French Treaty
          Commission notation by Jackson.
    Letter to Jackson from Roger B. Taney, Attorney General, regarding
          New Orleans banks.


  Case E:
    Letter in French regarding Louisiana colonies.
    Ship passport, signed by Jackson, June 4, 1835.
    Letter accompanying original Treasury Draft, remitting the famous
          Judge Hall fine.


  Case F:
    Photostatic copies of bills and letters from Philadelphia dealers
          regarding Hermitage furnishings purchased in 1837 and of bills
          for remodeling mansion after the fire in 1834.


  Case G:
    Copies of bills for Hermitage furnishings purchased in 1837.
    Letter from Jane Caffery, Hermitage, Feb. 1815, regarding the Battle
          of New Orleans, presented by Vera Walker Morel.
    Poem written on Jackson's birthday, March 15, 1837, White House.
    Letters to Major A. J. Donelson, telling of marauder's attempt to
          break in to President Jackson's bedroom.


  Case H:
    Letter from Jackson to his neighbor Dr. Doyle, requesting his
          consultation with Col. Jeremiah George Harris' physicians at
          the time of his accident.
    Letter from Lord Byron, Venice, 1819, to his Paris publishers,
          remonstrating against publishing under his name volumes of
          which he was not the author. Presented by Earl to Jackson,
          along with volume of Byron's poems.


  Case I:
    Letter from Jackson to Maj. Wm. B. Lewis, February 28, 1845,
          regarding Polk's cabinet and other political matters.
    Letter to President Jackson from Edward Livingston, Paris, May 6,
          1834.
    Letter, Emily Donelson to Andrew Jackson Donelson.


  Case J:
    Letter from Andrew Jackson to Major William B. Lewis, Aug. 6, 1814,
          referring to military matters.
    Letter from Andrew Jackson to Dr. Doyle, Fountain of Health,
          requesting bill for services to his ward, Dec. 27, 1840.
    Letter, Andrew Jackson to Andrew Jackson, Jr.




                          MANSION AND GROUNDS


The Hermitage is built in "Southern Colonial" style of architecture,
with large verandas in front and rear, a wide hallway, with two rooms on
either side, and wings supplementing these. The rooms are spacious, and
are eleven in number, besides pantry, storeroom, kitchen, cellar. There
is a smoke-house and other outhouses. In 1922 a steam furnace was
installed at a safe distance from the mansion, eliminating danger of
fire from this source.

    [Illustration: The hall.]


                               _The Hall_

 The hall contains the original hat rack, umbrella stand, two mahogany
sofas, pier table, Brussels stair carpet and brass rods, and the
chandelier. The hall floor originally was covered with oilcloth. The
pictorial wallpaper was printed by duFour in Paris, about 1825. The
complete set consisted of twenty-five strips in colors, and was ordered
by General Jackson in 1835, being the original paper used when the house
was rebuilt. It was shipped by way of New Orleans up the Mississippi and
Cumberland Rivers. This paper is of outstanding historical interest, one
of the few historic, scenic papers preserved in this country.

The paper represents the legend of the travels of Telemachus in search
of Ulysses, his father, and is that part of the story of his landing on
the island of Calypso. He is accompanied by Mentor.


    Scene I. The landing and the Queen advancing to meet them.
    Scene II. Telemachus relating the story of his travels to Calypso,
          the faithful Mentor by his side.
    Scene III. Calypso gives a fete in his honor, and Cupid begins to
          play a part.
    Scene IV. Telemachus resolves to escape; Calypso's maidens burn his
          boat, and he jumps from the cliffs.


In October, 1930, the paper was removed from the walls by Mr. James
Wilson from the Metropolitan Museum in New York, for the purpose of
treating the walls to insure the preservation of the paper, and was then
put back.


    1. Brass candlestick, presented by Mrs. Percy Warner.
    2. Glass Celande or Hurricane shade.


                           _The Front Parlor_

 All the furnishings in this room are originals. The chandelier, the
Parian marble vase and French china vase on wall brackets, the gold oval
mirror, the mantel of Italian marble, mirror over mantel, the pair of
Dresden urn vases, the Japanese bronze clock inlaid with enamel, the
matching candelabra, the two mahogany carved chairs, marble top table,
portfolio and autograph album (inlaid with mother-of-pearl, containing
two signatures of Sam Houston and presented by Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Plater), Bohemian glass dish, mahogany whatnot, brass cup, large
mahogany sofa, carpet and pier table are all pieces used when the
Jacksons were living in the Hermitage. The lace curtains are exact
reproductions of the original ones, made by Salmon Freres of Paris,
France. The original red brocatel draperies were replaced in 1954 with
exact reproductions of the fabric, made by Scalamandre Silks, which
fabric was also used to replace the upholstering on the red chairs and
the matching draperies in the back parlor. (Part of the original
curtains and draperies displayed in the museum.)


    1. Two carved chairs presented to Jackson by the Khedive of Egypt,
          when Jackson was President.
    2. Portrait of General Jackson presented by Mrs. Thomas M. Stegor.
    3. Portrait of Mrs. Jackson in ball dress.
    5. Pair Dresden vases used in the White House while Jackson was
          President.
    6. Bronze andirons, representing the Vestal Virgin.
    7. Portrait of Andrew Jackson by Healy, the artist who was
          commissioned by Louis Philippe to paint the portrait, only two
          of which are in existence. The other one hangs in the Louvre,
          Paris, painted eight days before Jackson's death. See Healy
          letter in Museum.
    8. Opal vases presented by Andrew and Albert Marble Jackson.
    9. Two liqueur bottles, presented by Lafayette to General Jackson.
    10. One of a pair of brass lamps with crystal prisms used at the
          Hermitage by the Jackson family. Purchased from the heirs of
          Samuel Jackson Lawrence by the Ladies' Hermitage Association.
    11. Silver filigree basket.
    12. Chair used in the White House during President Jackson's
          administration. Presented by Miss Laura Friesbee of
          Washington, D. C.
    13. Portrait of General Jackson by R. E. W. Earl, given by Mr. and
          Mrs. William Randolph Hearst, Jr.


                             _Back Parlor_

 All furnishings in this room are also originals (except lace curtains
and draperies). The chandelier, pier table, mahogany chair, two chairs
and tilt top table with mother-of-pearl inlay, mahogany card table, two
velvet chairs, Parian marble and French china vase on wall brackets,
pair of Empire urn-shaped "mirror vases" on the mantle of Tennessee
marble (duplicate of Italian marble one in front parlor), brass andirons
and fender, gold oval mirror, beaded mat and silver candlestick are all
pieces used at the Hermitage by the Jacksons.


    15. Sewing box inlaid with mother-of-pearl belonged to Mrs. Andrew
          Jackson; Mrs. Jackson presented it to Mrs. Emily Donelson;
          Mrs. Donelson gave it to Mrs. Wilcox (her daughter); Mrs.
          Wilcox gave it to Mrs. Andrew Price; through Mr. and Mrs.
          Richard Plater it was presented to the Ladies' Hermitage
          Association.
    16. Portrait of General Coffee.
    17. Portrait of General Bronaugh.
    18. Portrait of Colonel Gadsden.
    19. Portrait of Lieutenant Eastland.
    (These four constituted the Staff Officers generally called "General
          Jackson's military family.")
    20. Clock, one of the oldest relics, in the Hermitage before the
          death of Mrs. Rachel Jackson. The hands are set at the hour
          Jackson died.
    22. Jackson piano presented by Colonel Andrew Jackson, grandson of
          Andrew Jackson.
    23. Music book belonging to Mrs. Emily Donelson, First Lady of the
          White House. Presented by Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson.
    24. Two gilt wall brackets bought by Andrew Jackson, Jr.
    25. Flower jar presented by Andrew Jackson, IV, and Albert Marble
          Jackson (on wall bracket). Duplicate in front parlor.
    26. Mirror willed to the Association by Mrs. Alice Watkins Shields
          of Knoxville in 1934, originally at the Hermitage.
    27. Nut bowls, and compote (on pier table).
    28. Guitar of Mrs. Jackson, loaned by the Rev. Walton Lawrence
          Smith, a descendant.
    29. Mahogany center table. The only piece remaining of the set
          presented to General and Mrs. Jackson when on a visit to New
          Orleans after the battle. The gold spectacles on the table
          were worn by Mrs. Jackson and the volume of Robert Burns'
          poems is inscribed, "Rachel Jackson from her beloved husband,
          Andrew Jackson."
    30. Mahogany sofa bought by Mrs. Hoffstetter at the sale of the
          adopted son's effects in 1866. Presented to the Association in
          1897 by Miss Bettie Hoffstetter of Nashville.
    31. Pair of silver lustre vases sent to General Jackson from the
          Czar of Russia.


                      _General Jackson's Bedroom_

 This room is as it was the day he died, with the same furniture he
used, the bed he died upon, the chair he sat in, etc. The furnishings
consist of bedstead, bureau, wardrobe, washstand with china pieces,
table, chair, settee or sofa, wallpaper, bedspread, andirons and fender,
mirror, brass candlestick, etc. The same pictures are on the wall. The
bedspread is a replica of the original, handmade with the initials R. J.
embroidered on it. The original is in the Museum. The bed and window
draperies are exact reproductions of those used in the winter during
Jackson's lifetime, having been made by Scalamandre Silks, Inc., in New
York, N. Y. Part of the original fabric is in the Museum.


    1. Portrait of his wife by Earl, over the mantel, upon which his
          dying gaze rested.
    2. Portrait of the adopted son, Andrew Jackson, Jr., in childhood,
          by Earl.
    3. Earl portrait of the granddaughter, Mrs. Rachel J. Lawrence
          (eldest child of the adopted son), the pet and companion of
          his declining years.
    3A. French china teapot or veilleuse, with place for light at
          bottom, sometimes used as night light. This relic of General
          Jackson's was sold by descendants to the McIver family. The
          Association purchased it in 1959 from Miss Effie McIver, in
          memory of Miss Felicia Grundy Porter.
    4. Chinese Mandarin scent bottles. Belonged to Mrs. Jackson.
    5. Shell jewel case, which was Mrs. Jackson's.
    6. Portrait of Jackson.
    7. Shell vases on mantel, which belonged to Mrs. Jackson.
    8. Steel engraving, the "Sixth Seal." This is an illustration of The
          Revelation, Chapter 6:12, 17, engraved by G. H. Phillips from
          the original picture by F. Danby, A. R. A., in collection of
          Wm. Beckford, Esq.
    9. Colored print, "Battle of the Thames."
    10. Colored print, "Battle of North Point."
    11. Tobacco box, used by the General.
    12. His leather hatbox.
    13. Rachel Jackson's sewing box, made by an admirer who gathered the
          shells.
    14. Picture of Judge John Overton, bearing his signature, Judge
          Overton was Jackson's law partner and lifelong friend.


                    _Andrew Jackson, Jr.'s Bedroom_

 This was General and Mrs. Jackson's room previous to the death of Mrs.
Jackson in 1828, afterwards the bedroom of Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Jackson,
Jr. The furniture was purchased by Jackson after the fire in 1834.

The mahogany bedstead, one of eight purchased after the fire of 1834,
the mahogany bureau with toilet articles, mahogany washstand with
original washstand set, original hair brush and clothes brush,
strawberry design painted on back, mahogany marble top center table,
triple mirror, brass andirons, cut glass oil lamp, the brass candlestick
were all used in this room. The carpet is not original, but an old one
of the period. The portrait of Sarah York Jackson was painted by Healy.
The leather chair was one used constantly by her.

The wallpaper is a reproduction, presented by the Robert Graves Company
of New York and copyrighted (1925). The wood blocks from which the paper
was made were purchased by the Association.

Candlestick on mantel, presented by Mrs. Anne Hoyte Hicks Joyce, which
was purchased by her grandmother, Mrs. Maggie L. Hicks, at an early
auction, was used by General Jackson at the Hermitage.

Bohemian glass jar, which belonged to Rachel Jackson. Presented by Mrs.
W. T. Mallison.

Andrew Jackson's signature is on fly leaf of open volume, History of
England, 1793.


                              _Side Hall_


    1. Famous Military Portrait (by Earl).
    2. Secretary presented to General Jackson.
    3. Original sofa purchased by the Association in 1937.
    4. The wallpaper in the side hall (downstairs) is a copy of the
          original, the part upstairs is the original.
    5. Marble bust of General Jackson, presented by Hon. Lawrence
          Cooper, of Huntsville, Ala.
    6. Precepts, given to Jackson in his early youth by his mother,
          which he said ruled his life. This copy presented by E. A.
          Lindsey and Reau E. Folk.
    7. Jackson's Masonic Apron loaned by Stanley F. Horn.
    8. Copy of Jackson's portrait, which hangs in the Nashville Masonic
          Temple, the original having been painted when Jackson was
          Grand Master. Presented by the Grand Lodge of Free and
          Accepted Masons of Tennessee.
    9. Presentation copy of Masonic Manual, dedicated to Jackson and
          presented to him by the author, Wilkins Tannehil.
    10. Early portrait of Jackson, showing in the background the
          Hermitage as it was before it was remodeled in 1831 and
          preceding the fire of 1834. It was presented by Mrs. Charles
          W. Frear, of Troy, N. Y., in memory of her husband, who owned
          it for many years.
    11. Jackson portrait by Sully. Presented in 1958 by Mrs. John
          Valentine Mershon of Philadelphia, whose grandfather, Jonathan
          Paul Worrall, was one of the group who originally proposed
          Jackson's nomination for the presidency, and who previously
          owned the portrait. It was carried at the head of political
          parades.
    12. 1819 Map of the United States given by Mrs. James Wemyss of
          Gallatin, Tennessee.


                          _Office or Library_

 For thirty years the Hermitage was the political center of the United
States, and Andrew Jackson was the most influential man of his party.
Many visitors, political and otherwise, were constantly being received
by General Jackson in this office.

The books are those that constituted General and Mrs. Jackson's library
and some of those of the two succeeding generations. The bookcases,
which were General and Mrs. Jackson's, hold volumes of history, poetry,
fiction, theology, military regulations, law, medical practices for the
home, veterinary science, gardening, bound state papers and newspapers
of the time, school books, etc., numbering over 400.

The tables of mahogany, the brass candlestick, mahogany chairs, pair of
bronze oil lamps, cut glass celande or hurricane shade, brass spittoon,
boar paperweight, and owl inkstand are all original. The carpet, not
originally in the Hermitage, was obtained from the home of Mrs. Edgar
Foster, which was built in the period of the Hermitage. Other original
furnishings are:


    1. Three cherry bookcases.
    2. Chair, made from wood of the frigate Constitution, presented to
          Levi Woodbury, Secretary of the Navy, 1837; Secretary of the
          Treasury, 1834, to March, 1837; during the administration of
          President Jackson. Presented to the Hermitage by Miss Ellen C.
          Woodbury, daughter of Levi Woodbury, in 1900.
    3. Mahogany bookcase and desk.
    4. Bust of General Jackson by Hiram Powers. This Powers bust of
          Jackson, by the sculptor before he went to Italy for study, is
          one of the best examples of pure American art.
    5. Old map of New Hampshire.
    6. and 7. Pair of paintings of DeSoto and his wife, Isabella.
          Presented by Louis Philippe to President Jackson.
    8. Jackson's bound copies of the _Globe Democrat_, Published at
          Washington, D. C., while he was President of the United
          States. Presented by Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson.
    9. Old Newspapers of Jackson's time (Bound). Presented by Mrs.
          Rachel Jackson Lawrence. Atlas with Andrew Jackson's signature
          Sept. 12, 1835.
    10. Bust of Levi Woodbury, of General Jackson's cabinet.
    11. Case, made of historic wood taken from the old building first
          used as a statehouse in Nashville, 1812-1815. The case was
          made to protect the bound volumes of newspapers of Jackson's
          day. Wood given by Mrs. Jennie C. Buntin.
    12. Invalid chair, presented to General Jackson by the mechanics of
          Nashville. Invented by Dr. Holmes of South Carolina, who
          presented duplicates to Queen Victoria and John C. Calhoun.
    13. Mahogany candlestand, upon which General Jackson always opened
          his mail, and candlestick on beaded mat; his Bible and
          spectacles.
    14. Marble-topped table at which General Jackson issued directives
          at the Battle of New Orleans. Presented by Judge John Minnick
          Williams of Altus, Okla., formerly of Nashville.
    15. Chair, presented to Jackson by Chief Justice Roger B. Taney.
    16. Pair of bronze and crystal oil candelabra on mantel.
    17. Portrait by Earl of General Jackson on Sam Patch, white horse
          presented him in 1833 by the citizens of Pennsylvania. General
          Jackson rode this horse in a civic and military parade given
          in his honor in Philadelphia, after which it was sent to
          Nashville. Federal soldiers whom General Geo. H. Thomas had
          placed as guard at the Hermitage fired a military salute over
          the grave of the horse.
    18. The walnut office desk with a number of secret drawers; used
          constantly when Jackson was practicing attorney.
    19. Steel engraving of George Washington.
    20. Bust of Lewis Cass, Secretary of War and Minister
          Plenipotentiary to France under General Jackson.
    21. Liquor Chest of General Jackson. Presented by Mrs. Michael
          Mullens of Baltimore, Maryland.


                             _The Nursery_

 This room, used until 1955 as the museum for relics and papers, was at
one time during the residence of the Jacksons the overseer's room, at
another the nursery.

The cherry cradle was made at the Hermitage for Andrew Jackson, Jr., and
was purchased by the Association from a member of the family. The quilt
on the cradle was made by Mrs. W. L. Nichol, neighbor and friend of the
Jacksons, for her daughter, Julia Nichol More. Coverlet, given by Mrs.
Minos Fletcher, Jr., and Paul Shwab. The bed and the rug are types used
in that period. The chair, which was given by Mrs. D. W. Cantrell,
belonging to a member of the Jackson family. The chest of drawers and
the washstand were part of the original Hermitage furnishings, and the
china toilet set, of the Jackson period, was presented by Mrs. Edgar
Foster. The clock and the unique china candlesticks were also part of
the Hermitage furnishings, and the thermometer was General Jackson's.

The silver cup was presented by Martin Van Buren to his godson, Andrew
Jackson, III, on the occasion of his christening at the White House. The
portrait over the mantel, which was at the White House and also hung in
the Hermitage nursery, is of the twin children of Marcus Talmage, of New
York, namesakes of Andrew and Rachel Jackson. Presented by the Talmages.
The French doll of 1830 was given to The Hermitage by the Dixie-Dollers
Club.

The wooden hat box, which belonged to Jackson's mother, Elizabeth
Hutchinson Jackson, was given by Mrs. Clara Hudgins Cowgill. The print
of General Jackson is by Currier and Ives. One of the pictures is of
Mrs. Lucius Polk and her son, William. As Mary Eastin, she spent much
time at the White House with the Jacksons during her young ladyhood and
was married there. The other picture is of Mary Eastin and Madame Pageot
(daughter of Jackson's close friend, Maj. Wm. B. Lewis) who was also one
of the Jacksons' favorites and was married there. Both pictures, made
from portraits owned by the family of Mrs. Lucius E. Burch, were
presented by Mrs. Burch. The small oil painting by the ten-year-old
daughter of Peter G. Washington was a gift to Jackson during his
presidency.


                           THE UPPER CHAMBERS


                             _Earl's Room_

 Ralph E. W. Earl, son of the distinguished artist, Ralph Earl, was a
member of the Hermitage and White House households for 20 years. He
married Jane Caffery, niece of Mrs. Jackson, who died within a year and
Earl never remarried. He painted numerous fine portraits of Jackson and
other notables. He is buried in the Hermitage garden, the gravestone
being inscribed, "Erected in memory of Col. R. E. W. Earl, Friend and
Companion of General Andrew Jackson, who died at the Hermitage, Sept.
16, 1838."

The bed, the chest, the mirror, the chair of Venetian ironwork, used as
a barber's chair, all belonged to the original furnishings. The
wallpaper is also the original. The carpet which is of the same period
was presented by Mrs. Horatio Berry. A quilt of the period is the gift
of Mrs. Louise Blackwell, of Warrenton, Va.


    1. Portrait of Col. Jeremiah George Harris. Purser of the Navy,
          Editor of National Union and close friend of Jackson.
          Presented by his daughter, Mrs. Van S. Lindsley.
    2. Portrait of Jackson by Earl.
    3. Pair of shell letter racks presented to Mrs. Jackson in 1827
          (letter of presentation in the Museum.)
    4. Profile portrait of Jackson by Earl. Presented by Miss Mary
          McLemore, Donelson descendant, whose brother, John C.
          McLemore, III, had bequeathed it to the Hermitage.
    5. Banjo owned by President Jackson, loaned by Miss Emma
          Hoffstetter.


                         _Little Rachel's Room_

 First child of the adopted son, Andrew Jackson, Jr., and Sarah York
Jackson, "Little Rachel" was born at the Hermitage. She was always the
special pet of Jackson and was one of those who stood by his bedside
when he died. This room was refurnished for her with these rosewood
pieces when she married Dr. J. M. Lawrence in 1852. The table belonged
to Jackson. The wall paper is original, but the carpet is one of the
period. The quilt was made by "Little Rachel" and was presented by Mrs.
R. H. Oliphant, of San Mateo, Calif., in memory of her mother. The
portrait over the mantel of Rachel Jackson Lawrence in her latter years
was presented by her family. She is pictured wearing the miniature of
her grandmother Jackson, for whom she was named, and which was given to
her by President Jackson with the injunction never to go without it. A
portrait of Andrew Jackson by the artist Wood, acquired by the
Association in 1910. Washstand set of the period, given by Mrs. David P.
Adams.

The bronze lamp on mantle was among the original Hermitage furnishings.


                            _The Upper Hall_


    1. Jackson's old cedar chest.
    2. Steel engraving "Sortie on Gibraltar."
    3. Steel engraving, "Siege of Gibraltar."
    4. Steel engraving of Jackson on Sam Patch, willed to the
          Association by Miss Elizabeth Archer.
    5. Oration on General Jackson, delivered by George Bancroft, U. S.
          Secretary of the Navy, in Washington, June 27, 1845 (one of 24
          public eulogies delivered by various national leaders
          following Jackson's death).


                              _Guest Room_

 It was the Hermitage custom to welcome all travelers; this room was one
used to accommodate some of the numerous guests. The two mahogany beds
are original. The Association possesses six of the eight mahogany beds
purchased when the house was refurnished in 1835. Also among the
original furnishings are the cedar chest, mahogany washstand and
wardrobe, the mirror, the mother-of-pearl inlay plate, the small leather
trunk and the hatbox, and the wallpaper is original. The bowl and
pitcher, presented by Mary Felice Ferrell, were given to her grandfather
by Jackson. The Venetian ironwork chair was used as a barber's chair.
The carpet is an old one of the period.


    1. Portrait of Jackson by Earl.
    2. Portrait of Jackson by an unknown artist.


                           _The Brides' Room_

 As General and Mrs. Jackson were greatly beloved by the younger members
of her family and of their friends, many came, including Henry A. Wise
(later Governor of Virginia) and his bride, to spend their honeymoons at
the Hermitage. This guest room, therefore, was known as the Brides'
Room. The mahogany bed, French dresser, wardrobe, chest and shaving
stand, table, mirror and china vases were all among the original
furnishings. The bedspread is handwoven, the silk quilt was made by Mrs.
Julia Nichol More, granddaughter of Josiah Nichol, friend and neighbor
of the Jacksons. The carpet was a gift from Miss Myrtle Drane, of
Clarksville, who inherited it from her grandfather.


    1. Portrait of Mrs. Jackson. Presented to the Association by Mrs.
          Ellen Call Long, whose father, General Call, eloped with Miss
          Mary Kirkman and was married at the Hermitage. This portrait
          and also one of General Jackson, were given to the young
          couple as a bridal present.
    2. Chair from the Chateau de Lafayette, presented to the Association
          in 1890 by Senator Edmond de Lafayette, the grandson of
          General Lafayette. Senator Lafayette's letter in relation to
          this gift is in the Museum.
    3. Masonic Lodge candlestick used in Gallatin by General Jackson.
          Presented by Col. Thomas H. Boyers.
    4. Portrait of Jackson presented to the Association by Mr. and Mrs.
          David C. Mosby, San Francisco, Calif.


                           _The Dining Room_

 Rachel Jackson's Blessing was: "Sanctify, O Lord, we beseech Thee, this
provision for our good and us to Thy service for Christ's sake, Amen."

The dining room contains the original sideboard, table, some of the
chairs, side table, pier table, sugar chest, andirons, and some of the
silver and glass. The drapery fabric is an exact reproduction of an old
brocatel pattern, by Scalamandre Silks; the curtains are of the type
originally used; the carpet is one of the period. The floor is the only
one in the mansion that has had to be replaced; a piece of the original
flooring is in the Museum.

Adjoining the dining room is the pantry and farther to the rear the
storeroom. A passageway leads directly from the dining room to the porch
connecting with the kitchen.

All articles in the dining room are originals unless otherwise
specified.


    1. The "Old Hickory" or January 8 mantel, made of bits of hickory
          bark worked on only on the 8th of January of successive years,
          by one of Jackson's soldiers in the Battle of New Orleans.
          Presented to General Jackson January 8, 1839 and placed in the
          dining room by General Jackson, January 8, 1840.
    2. Pair of French vases, on the mantel.
    3. The original dining table, at which several Presidents have
          dined: James Monroe, Martin Van Buren, James K. Polk, Theodore
          Roosevelt, and Franklin D. Roosevelt. Presidents Millard
          Fillmore, Franklin Pierce, James Buchanan, Rutherford B.
          Hayes, and William H. Taft, General Sam Houston, and the
          Marquis de Lafayette were also among the distinguished guests
          who have been entertained at the Hermitage.
    4. Silver tray given to Jackson by Sam Houston. Presented to the
          Association by Mrs. Alice Watkins Shields. The large coffee
          pot with the initials A. J., once owned by Jackson, was
          returned by its recent owner, Mrs. John MacVeagh, Santa
          Barbara, Calif.; the three other pieces are Hermitage
          originals.
    5. Candelabra with "wind glasses."
    6. Epergne.
    7. Silver wine cart. Mate in Museum.
    8. Two of the Decatur silver vegetable dishes.
    9. Silver egg and toast rack. Presented by Mr. and Mrs. T. Graham
          Hall in memory of his mother, Mrs. Jennie McIver Hall, to
          whose family these were given by the Jacksons.
    10. Cruet set.
    11. Silver covered dishes, part of the silver pieces purchased by
          Jackson from the widow of Commodore Decatur. The silver
          originally included sixteen round and oval dishes, which were
          used constantly for years at the Hermitage.
    12. Silver candelabrum, one of a pair used at the White House, given
          by Miss Mary R. Wilcox.
    13. Additional pieces of the Decatur silver.
    14. Bohemian wine decanters and silver holders.
    15. Silver wine cooler.
    16. Portrait of John Donelson, one of the Tennessee pioneers,
          brother of Rachel Jackson.
    17. Portrait of the adopted son, Andrew Jackson, Jr. by Earl.
    18. Portrait of Sarah York Jackson (wife of Andrew Jackson, Jr.).
          The dress in which she is pictured is in the Museum.
    19. Portrait of Mrs. John Donelson (Mary Purnell).
    20. Portrait of Rachel Jackson, wife of Andrew Jackson.
    21. Portrait of Andrew Jackson, about 1820.
    22. Oil painting of Christopher Columbus (over the mantel).
          Presented to Jackson by S. D. Bradford of West Roxbury, Mass
    23. Portrait of General Coffee.
    24. Portrait of Mary Donelson Coffee, wife of General Coffee,
          daughter of John Donelson and niece of Rachel Jackson. These
          portraits were presented by Hon. Alexander Donelson Coffee,
          son of General and Mrs. Coffee.


                               _Kitchen_

 The restoration of the furnishings of the old kitchen to its oldtime
glory of yawning chimney piece, its crane and pothook, its ovens and
skillets, its candle molds and spinning wheels, brings back
reminiscences of the cook, "Betty," and the old regime of Jackson's day.
The large stone hearth is as it was in General Jackson's day.


    Spinning wheel and reel, over 100 years old. Presented by Andrew
          Jackson Baker, former custodian, who was born at the
          Hermitage.
    Table of the period, given by Mrs. W. H. Wemyss.
    Candle molds. Presented by Miss Louise Baxter, Mrs. W. J. McMurray,
          Mrs. M. A. Spurr, and Mrs. George L. Cowan.
    Pothooks and Flax Hacker. Used in Revolutionary days. Presented by
          Miss Louise Baxter and Miss Louise G. Lindsley.
    Some of the original kitchen utensils. Presented by Mrs. Andrew
          Jackson III.
    Copper kettle given to Rachel Jackson by Peggy O'Neal.
    Old grease lamp, given by Mrs. W. A. Hargis.
    Original water cooler. Always used in the pantry.
    Brass kettle. Presented by Mrs. Whitefoord Cole.
    Original churn of Jackson's. Loaned by Miss Emma Hoffstetter. Six
          dish covers, pair tongs of Major Andrew Jackson Donelson's.
          Presented by Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson.
    Original old wafer irons. Presented by Mrs. L. D. Hill and Mrs John
          K. Maddin.
    Original kitchen "safe," for keeping food.
    Pie tins and custard cups, used by Aunt Betty, the cook.
    Original spice jars, brought from China.
    Original flour and meal chest.
    Original chest which contained Decatur silver (see letter in
          Museum).
    Original brass kettles, used for preserving.
    Plate given by Mary Hook, once used at the Hermitage.
    Iron spit, given by Mary Felice Ferrell.
    The bells overhead on the back porch were rung from the parlor and
          front door.


                          _The Old Smokehouse_

 A remnant of days long gone by, when the smokehouse was the most
important house on a plantation. Built in 1831.

Original trough for salting meat made from one log, presented by Mrs.
Cleves Symmes, granddaughter of Jackson's adopted son.

The iron kettle, used for rendering lard, was given by Mrs. E. W.
Graham, great-great-grandniece of Rachel Jackson. The imitation hams
show how they were hung from the beams.

A normal supply of meat for the 100 slaves, family and guests when hogs
were killed was from 20,000 to 25,000 pounds.


                              _The Garden_

 To the east of the mansion is the flower garden which General Jackson
had laid out in 1819 for his wife, Rachel, whose chief interest it was.

It was designed by William Frost, a well-known English Landscapist, and
it is considered by authorities to be an outstanding example of early
American garden design.

More than an acre in area, the garden contains about fifty varieties of
old fashioned plants and great hickory and magnolia trees planted by
General Jackson.

Other interesting varieties of trees in the garden and on the grounds
have markers showing their common and botanical names.

Copy of an old English sundial given by Thomas H. Berry. Base given by
James W. Pearre.

The tomb of General and Mrs. Jackson is in the south-east corner of the
garden, and many other members of their family and household are buried
in the plot nearby.

    [Illustration: Garden plan.]




THE TOMB


    [Illustration: The tomb.]

The tomb was built by General Jackson in 1831 and was erected over his
wife, with a vault for himself.

The inscription on General Jackson's tomb is:

                         General Andrew Jackson
                          Born March 15, 1767
                           Died June 8, 1845

The inscription on Mrs. Jackson's tomb was written by her husband, and
is as follows:

  "Here lie the remains of Mrs. Rachel Jackson, wife of President
  Jackson, who died the 22nd of December, 1828. Age, 61 years. Her face
  was fair, her person pleasing, her temper amiable, her heart kind; she
  delighted in relieving the wants of her fellow creatures, and
  cultivated that divine pleasure by the most liberal and unpretending
  methods; to the poor she was a benefactor; to the rich an example; to
  the wretched a comforter; to the prosperous an ornament; her piety
  went hand in hand with her benevolence, and she thanked her Creator
  for being permitted to do good. A being so gentle and so virtuous
  slander might wound, but could not dishonor. Even death, when he bore
  her from the arms of her husband, could but transport her to the bosom
  of her God."

The other graves on the plot are those of the adopted son, Andrew
Jackson, Jr., and his wife, Mrs. Sarah York Jackson. Two infants lie
buried there; also one son, Samuel Jackson, who was killed at
Chickamauga; the grave of Dr. John M. Lawrence, who married Rachel, the
idol of the old General's life. In February, 1923, the spirit of Mrs.
Rachel Jackson Lawrence passed into the great beyond, and her body rests
beside her husband and near her grandfather, the great hero, who
affectionately looked upon and called her his "beloved little Rachel."
The grave of Col. R. E. W. Earl, friend and companion of Jackson, is
there. Further apart from the other graves is that of Mrs. Marion Adams,
the widowed sister of Mrs. Sarah Jackson who always resided with her,
and whose family was reared at the Hermitage. On December 19, 1906, Col.
Andrew Jackson, grandson, was laid beside his kindred dust in the
garden, and his wife, Mrs. Amy Jackson, who died January 9, 1921, lies
beside him. There are also the graves of John Marshall Lawrence,
1859-1926, and Thomas Donelson Lawrence, 1869-1942, sons of Mrs. Rachel
Jackson Lawrence; and Anne Laurie Lawrence Smith, born at the Hermitage
April 3, 1855, died February 4, 1937, and Sazie Lawrence Winn, born at
Hermitage March 15, 1854, died May 6, 1882, daughters of Mrs. Lawrence.
Andrew Jackson, IV, son of Col. Andrew and Mrs. Amy Jackson, was buried
here in 1953.

The grave of Uncle Alfred, freed slave who preferred to remain at the
Hermitage and who wanted to be buried near General Jackson, is located
to the north of the tomb in the garden.

The stone seat near the tomb is one of three presented to the Hermitage
by Mrs. Marvin E. Holderness, Mr. Robert F. Jackson, Jr., and Mr. N.
Baxter Jackson of New York, in memory of their mother, Mrs. Robert F.
Jackson, who served as Regent of the Ladies' Hermitage Association. Mrs.
Robert F. Jackson's grandmother, Mrs. Mary L. Baxter, served as first
Regent 1889-1899.


                         THE SARCOPHAGUS OFFER

  In March, 1845, Commodore Elliott offered to General Jackson a
  sarcophagus which he had obtained at Palestine. In a letter of
  appreciation, but ringing with American spirit, General Jackson
  declined the offer.

  Copies of two letters touching this incident were presented to the
  Association by Hon. John Wesley Gaines and are as follows:

                                        Washington City, March 18, 1845.

  _My Dear General_--Last night I made something of a speech at the
  National Institute, and have offered for their acceptance the
  sarcophagus which I obtained at Palestine, brought home in the
  Constitution, and believed to contain the remains of the Roman Emperor
  Alexander Severus, with the suggestion that it might be tendered you
  for your final resting place. I pray you, General, to live on in the
  fear of the Lord; dying the death of a Roman soldier, an emperor's
  coffin awaits you.

  I am, truly, your friend.
                                                       Jesse D. Elliott.
  To Gen. Andrew Jackson.

                                       Hermitage, Tenn., March 27, 1845.

  _Dear Sir_--Your letter of the 18th inst. tonight with a copy of the
  Proceedings of the National Institute, furnished me by their
  corresponding secretary, on the presentation by you of the sarcophagus
  for acceptance on condition it shall be preserved and in honor of my
  memory, have been received and are now before me. Although laboring
  under great debility and affliction, from a severe attack from which I
  may not recover, I raise my pen and endeavor to reply. The steadiness
  of my nerves may perhaps lead you to conclude my prostration of
  strength is not so great as here expressed. Strange as it may appear,
  my nerves are as steady as they were forty years gone by, whilst from
  debility and affliction I am gasping for breath. I have read the whole
  proceedings of the presentation by you of the sarcophagus, and the
  resolutions passed by the board of directors so honorable to my fame,
  with sensations and feelings more easily to be conjectured than by me
  expressed. The whole proceedings call for my most grateful thanks
  which are hereby extended to you, and through you to the president and
  directors of the National Institute. BUT WITH THE WARMEST SENSATIONS
  THAT CAN INSPIRE A GRATEFUL HEART, I MUST DECLINE ACCEPTING THE HONOR
  INTENDED TO BE BESTOWED. I CANNOT CONSENT THAT MY MORTAL BODY SHALL BE
  LAID IN A REPOSITORY PREPARED FOR AN EMPEROR OR KING.

  MY REPUBLICAN FEELINGS AND PRINCIPLES FORBID IT; THE SIMPLICITY OF OUR
  SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT FORBIDS IT. EVERY MONUMENT ERECTED TO PERPETUATE
  THE MEMORY OF OUR HEROES AND STATESMEN OUGHT TO BEAR EVIDENCE OF THE
  ECONOMY AND SIMPLICITY OF OUR REPUBLICAN INSTITUTIONS AND OF THE
  PLAINNESS OF OUR REPUBLICAN CITIZENS, WHO ARE THE SOVEREIGNS OF OUR
  GLORIOUS UNION AND WHOSE VIRTUE IT IS TO PERPETUATE IT. TRUE VIRTUE
  CANNOT EXIST WHERE POMP AND PARADE ARE THE GOVERNING PASSIONS. IT CAN
  ONLY DWELL WITH THE PEOPLE--THE GREAT LABORING AND PRODUCING
  CLASSES--THAT FORM THE BONE AND SINEW OF OUR CONFEDERACY.

  For these reasons I cannot accept the honor you and the president and
  directors of the National Institute intended to bestow. I CANNOT
  PERMIT MY REMAINS TO BE THE FIRST IN THESE UNITED STATES TO BE
  DEPOSITED IN A SARCOPHAGUS MADE FOR AN EMPEROR OR A KING. I again
  repeat, please accept for yourself, and convey to the president and
  directors of the National Institute, my most profound respects for the
  honor you and they intended to bestow. I have prepared an humble
  depository for my mortal body besides that wherein lies my beloved
  wife, where, without any pomp or parade, I have requested, when my God
  calls me to sleep with my fathers, to be laid; for both of us there to
  remain until the last trumpet sounds to call the dead to judgment,
  when we, I hope, shall rise together, clothed with that heavenly body
  promised to all who believe in our glorious Redeemer who died for us
  that we might live, and by whose atonement I hope for a blessed
  immortality.

  I am, with great respect, your friend and fellow citizen,
                                                         Andrew Jackson.
  To Commodore J. D. Elliott, United States Navy.

On January 8th, the anniversary of the Battle of New Orleans, an annual
pilgrimage is made to the tomb of Andrew Jackson by the Association,
school groups, patriotic and civil official organizations.
Representatives place wreaths on the tomb. The Andrew Jackson State
Park, commemorating his birthplace, is located 10 miles north of
Lancaster, S. C.

Horseshoe Bend National Military Park, largely a memorial to General
Jackson, is located on the site of the Battle of Horseshoe Bend, on the
Tallapoosa River, east central Alabama.


                         _Uncle Alfred's Cabin_

 Uncle Alfred was General Jackson's body-servant and lived in his cabin
in the rear yard. Born in 1803, he lived until 1901, and for many years
entertained visitors when acting as guide through the Hermitage. At his
request, he is buried near the Jackson tomb in the garden. This cabin
has been furnished according to Uncle Alfred's time. In one of the rooms
of the cabin is an old spinning jinny (original) presented by Mrs. W. B.
Walton, a great-niece of Mrs. Jackson. This was inherited by Mrs. Walton
from the family.


                _Old Carriage House From Hunter's Hill_

 Log building used as a carriage house during Jackson's residence at
Hunter's Hill, was moved from there and now located near the spring,
used as a tool house.


                     _The Log House by the Spring_

 Completed in 1940, was built for the use of the Hermitage Association
members. It consists of two spacious rooms and a kitchen equipped for
simple cooking. It is used for the annual spring and fall outings of the
Association, and members have the privilege of using the kitchen and one
or both rooms for entertaining, upon application to the custodian and
payment of a small fee. One of the rooms was furnished in memory of Mrs.
Walter Stokes, former Regent, by her daughter, Mrs. W. H. Wemyss, and
her son, Walter Stokes, Jr.


                       GENUINENESS OF THE RELICS

That there might never be a question raised as to the genuineness of the
relics purchased, the Association has obtained from Colonel Jackson and
his sister, Mrs. Rachel Jackson Lawrence, the following affidavit:

  TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

  This is to certify that all the articles of furniture or relics
  purchased by the Ladies' Hermitage Association from Mrs. Rachel
  Jackson Lawrence, granddaughter, and Col. Andrew Jackson, grandson of
  General Andrew Jackson are the identical pieces of furniture owned and
  used by General Jackson during his lifetime. They were in the
  Hermitage when General Jackson died and were there when the Ladies'
  Hermitage Association took possession in 1889. The entire collection
  was removed in 1893, when Col. Jackson left the Hermitage, and have
  been restored from time to time as the Association was able to
  purchase them.

  The articles restored up to the present time, March, 1900, are those
  in General Jackson's bedroom, which is complete as it was the day he
  died; the library, or office, entire; the hall, entire; and all
  furniture now in the dining room and parlors.

  (SEAL)
                                                Rachel Jackson Lawrence.
                                                    Col. Andrew Jackson.

  Sworn to and subscribed before me, this March 13, 1900.
                                           R. S. Cowan, _Notary Public_.

Since 1900 many more pieces of the Jackson furniture and relics have
been acquired and restored to the Hermitage by purchase, gift, or loan;
and while it is well furnished throughout with original pieces,
information is still being gathered and evaluated on some outstanding
relics.


                    OFFICERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                 OF THE
                     LADIES' HERMITAGE ASSOCIATION

  _Regent_                                         Mrs. A. MacDowell Smith
  _First Vice-Regent_                               Mrs. William P. Cooper
  _Second Vice-Regent_                               Mrs. Edward W. Graham
  _Treasurer_                                            Mrs. Roy C. Avery
  _Recording Secretary_                                Mrs. Horatio Buntin
  _Corresponding Secretary_                         Mrs. Douglas M. Wright


  Mrs. George F. Blackie
  Miss Marian Craig
  Mrs. Paul E. DeWitt
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. Henry Goodpasture
  Mrs. Douglas Henry
  Mrs. Marvin E. Holderness
  Miss Martha Lindsey
  Mrs. Gilbert Merritt
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. Fred Russell
  Mrs. Laird Smith
  Mrs. William H. Wemyss
  Mrs. John Reid Woodward


  Mr. Stanley F. Horn, _President_, Nashville
  Mr. William Waller, _Vice President_, Nashville
  Mr. C. Lawrence Winn, _Secretary_, Old Hickory
  Mr. Henry Barker, Bristol
  Mr. Thomas H. Berry, White Pine
  Mr. Walter Chandler, Memphis
  Mr. Lewis R. Donelson, Jr., Memphis
  Mr. T. Graham Hall, Nashville
  Mr. James G. Stahlman, Nashville


   The Following Boards Have Had Control of the Association Since Its
                              Organization


                          ELECTED MAY 15, 1889


  Mrs. Mary L. Baxter, Regent
  Mrs. A. S. Colyar, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. J. M. Dickinson, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. William Morrow
  Mrs. John Ruhm
  Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson
  Mrs. Duncan B. Cooper
  Mrs. Felix Demoville
  L. F. Benson, Treasurer


                          ELECTED MAY 20, 1891


  Mrs. Mary L. Baxter, Regent
  Mrs. Albert S. Marks, Acting Regent
  Mrs. J. Berrien Lindsley, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. William Morrow
  Mrs. John Ruhm
  Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson
  Mrs. John C. Gaut
  Mrs. Maggie L. Hicks
  Dr. William Morrow, Treasurer


                          ELECTED JUNE 7, 1893


  Mrs. Mary L. Baxter, Regent
  Mrs. Albert S. Marks, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. J. Berrien Lindsley, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. John Ruhm, Auditor
  Mrs. John C. Gaut
  Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson
  Mrs. Isabel M. Clark
  Mrs. J. M. Dickinson
  Mr. Edgar Jones, Treasurer


                        ELECTED OCTOBER 30, 1895


  Mrs. Mary L. Baxter, Regent
  Mrs. Albert S. Marks, Acting Regent
  Mrs. J. Berrien Lindsley, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. John Ruhm, Auditor
  Mrs. Hugh Craighead
  Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson
  Mrs. John C. Gaut
  Mrs. Isabel Clark
  Mrs. P. H. Manlove, Treasurer


                          ELECTED MAY 19, 1897


  Mrs. Mary L. Baxter, Regent
  Mrs. Albert S. Marks, Acting Regent
  Mrs. J. Berrien Lindsley, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. R. G. Throne
  Mrs. J. M. Dickinson
  Mrs. M. S. Cockrill
  Mrs. A. M. Shook
  Mrs. John C. Gaut
  Mrs. P. H. Manlove, Treasurer


                          ELECTED MAY 17, 1899


  Mrs. J. Berrien Lindsley, Regent
  Mrs. J. M. Dickinson. First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Eugene C. Lewis, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. R. G. Throne
  Mrs. M. S. Cockrill
  Mrs. A. M. Shook
  Mrs. John C. Gaut
  Mrs. J. C. Buntin
  Mrs. A. M. Shook, Treasurer


                          ELECTED MAY 15, 1901


  Mrs. J. Berrien Lindsley, Regent
  Mrs. A. M. Shook, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. M. S. Cockrill, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. John C. Gaut
  Mrs. William J. McMurray
  Mrs. Thomas M. Steger
  Mrs. J. C. Buntin
  Mrs. J. Walter Allen, Treasurer


                          ELECTED MAY 13, 1903


  Mrs. J. Berrien Lindsley, Regent
  Mrs. A. M. Shook, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. M. S. Cockrill, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. John C. Gaut
  Mrs. William J. McMurray
  Mrs. Thomas M. Steger
  Mrs. J. C. Buntin
  Mrs. J. Walter Allen, Treasurer
    Mrs. Lindsley expiring July 5, 1903. Mrs. A. M. Shook was elected
          Regent, Miss Louise Lindsley, a director.


                          ELECTED MAY 17, 1905


  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Regent
  Mrs. M. S. Cockrill, First Vice-Regent
  Miss Louise Lindsley, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. J. Walter Allen, Secretary
  Mrs. William J. McMurray
  Mrs. Thomas M. Steger
  Mrs. J. C. Buntin
  Mrs. A. M. Shook
  Mrs. P. H. Manlove, Treasurer


                          ELECTED MAY 15, 1907


  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Regent
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. A. M. Shook, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. J. Walter Allen, Secretary
  Mrs. M. S. Cockrill
  Mrs. Thomas M. Steger
  Mrs. B. F. Wilson
  Mrs. Joseph M. Ford
  Mrs. P. H. Manlove, Treasurer


                          ELECTED MAY 19, 1909


  Miss Louise Grundy Lindsley, Regent
  Mrs. Walter Allen, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. A. M. Shook, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. M. S. Cockrill
  Mrs. J. Cleves Symmes
  Mrs. B. F. Wilson
  Mrs. Joseph M. Ford
  Mrs. P. H. Manlove, Treasurer
    Mrs. M. S. Cockrill expired 1910. Mrs. Shelby Williams elected her
          successor.


                          ELECTED MAY 17, 1911


  Miss Louise Grundy Lindsley, Regent
  Mrs. J. Walter Allen, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. B. F. Wilson, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. J. Cleves Symmes
  Mrs. John C. Brown
  Mrs. A. M. Shook
  Mrs. James H. Campbell
  Mrs. P. H. Manlove, Treasurer


                          ELECTED MAY 21, 1913


  Mrs. B. F. Wilson, Regent
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. A. M. Shook, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Miss Carrie Sims
  Mrs. R. A. Henry
  Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson
  Mrs. Maggie L. Hicks
  Mrs. P. H. Manlove, Treasurer


                          ELECTED MAY 19, 1915


  Mrs. B. F. Wilson, Regent
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. A. M. Shook, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Miss Carrie Sims
  Mrs. R. A. Henry
  Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson
  Mrs. Maggie L. Hicks
  Mrs. P. H. Manlove, Treasurer
    Mrs. P. H. Manlove expiring February 27, 1917. Mrs. Maggie L. Hicks
          was elected treasurer and Mrs. Porter Phillips a director.


                          ELECTED MAY 16, 1917


  Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson, Regent
  Mrs. B. F. Wilson, First Vice-Regent
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Maggie L. Hicks, Treasurer
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. A. M. Shook
  Mrs. Porter Phillips
  Mrs. R. A. Henry
  Mrs. J. Washington Moore


                          ELECTED MAY 21, 1919


  Mrs. Bettie M. Donelson, Regent
  Mrs. B. F. Wilson, First Vice-Regent
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Maggie L. Hicks, Treasurer
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. E. T. Lowe
  Mrs. Porter Phillips
  Mrs. Harry Evans
  Mrs. R. A. Henry


                          ELECTED MAY 18, 1921


  Mrs. Harry Evans, Regent
  Mrs. Alex Caldwell, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. James S. Frazer, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. Maggie L. Hicks, Treasurer
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. R. A. Henry
  Mrs. Joseph H. Thompson
  Mrs. Walter Stokes
    Mrs. Harry Evans resigned April 4th 1922. Mrs. Henry elected Regent
          and Mrs. McFarland a director. Mrs. Maggie L. Hicks resigned
          December, 1921. Mrs. E. A, Lindsey elected treasurer. Mrs.
          Joseph H. Thompson resigned and Mrs. Reau Folk elected
          October, 1921.


                            ELECTED MAY 1922


  Mrs. R. A. Henry, Regent
  Mrs. Alex Caldwell, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. James S. Frazer, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. Maggie L. Hicks, Treasurer
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. Reau Folk
  Mrs. Walter Stokes
  Mrs. Craig McFarland


                          ELECTED MAY 16, 1923


  Mrs. Walter Stokes, Regent
  Mrs. Alex Caldwell, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. James S. Frazer, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Mary C. Dorris, Secretary
  Mrs. E. A. Lindsey, Treasurer
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. Reau Folk
  Mrs. Craig McFarland
  Mrs. John T. Henderson


                          ELECTED MAY 20, 1925


  Mrs. Walter Stokes, Regent
  Mrs. James Frazer, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. E. W. Graham, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Reau Folk, Secretary
  Mrs. E. A. Lindsey, Treasurer
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. Craig McFarland
  Mrs. H. L. Sperry.
  Mrs. J. H. Overton


                          ELECTED MAY 18, 1927


  Mrs. James S. Frazer, Regent
  Mrs. Edward A. Lindsey, 1st Vice-Regent
  Mrs. E. W. Graham, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Reau E. Folk, Secretary
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. H. L. Sperry
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. James E. Caldwell, Sr.


                          ELECTED MAY 15, 1929


  Mrs. Edward A. Lindsey, Regent
  Mrs. Reau E. Folk, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. E. E. Graham, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. H. L. Sperry, Secretary
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. James E. Caldwell
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster


                          ELECTED MAY 20, 1931


  Mrs. Edward A. Lindsey, Regent
  Mrs. Reau E. Folk, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. E. W. Graham, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Mrs. Paul DeWitt, Secretary
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. James E. Caldwell
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster


                          ELECTED MAY 17, 1933


  Mrs. Reau E. Folk, Regent
  Mrs. E. W. Graham, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. James E. Caldwell, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Paul DeWitt, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Walter Stokes, Corresponding Sec.
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. E. A. Lindsey
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. George Blackie


                           ELECTED MAY, 1935


  Mrs. Reau E. Folk, Regent
  Mrs. E. W. Graham, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. James E. Caldwell, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Paul DeWitt, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Walter Stokes, Corresponding Sec.
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. E. A. Lindsey
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. George Blackie


                           ELECTED MAY, 1937


  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton, Regent
  Mrs. E. W. Graham, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. James E. Caldwell, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Paul DeWitt, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Walter Stokes, Corresponding Sec.
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. E. A. Lindsey
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. George Blackie
  Mrs. Reau E. Folk.


                           ELECTED MAY, 1939


  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton, Regent
  Mrs. E. W. Graham, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. James E. Caldwell, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Paul DeWitt, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Geo. Blackie, Corresponding Secretary
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. Charles Buntin
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. Walter Stokes
    Mrs. James E. Caldwell expired 1939, and Mrs. Edgar Foster was
          elected her successor. Miss Martha Lindsey was elected to the
          Board.


                           ELECTED MAY, 1941


  Mrs. Edward W. Graham, Regent
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. George F. Blackie, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Mrs. Paul DeWitt, Recording Secretary
  Miss Martha Lindsey, Cor. Secretary
  Mrs. Walter Stokes
  Mrs. Charles E. Buntin
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley


                           ELECTED MAY, 1943


  Mrs. Edward W. Graham, Regent
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. George F. Blackie, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Mrs. Paul DeWitt, Recording Secretary
  Miss Martha Lindsey, Cor. Secretary
  Mrs. Walter Stokes
  Mrs. Charles E. Buntin
  Miss Louise G. Lindsley
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright
  Mrs. Robert F. Jackson, Sr.


                           ELECTED MAY, 1945


  Mrs. George F. Blackie, Regent
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Robert F. Jackson, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Miss Martha Lindsey, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright, Cor. Secretary
  Mrs. Walter Stokes
  Mrs. Paul DeWitt
  Mrs. Chas. E. Buntin
  Mrs. E. W. Graham
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Miss Fermine Pride
  Mrs. William P. Cooper
  Mrs. Roy Avery


                           ELECTED MAY, 1947


  Mrs. George F. Blackie, Regent
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Robert F. Jackson, Sec. Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Lyon Childress, Treasurer
  Mrs. Martha Lindsey, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright, Cor. Secretary
  Mrs. Walter Stokes
  Mrs. Paul DeWitt
  Mrs. Chas. E. Buntin
  Mrs. E. W. Graham
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Miss Fermine Pride
  Mrs. William P. Cooper
  Mrs. Roy Avery


                           ELECTED MAY, 1949


  Mrs. Robert F. Jackson, Regent
  Mrs. William P. Cooper, First Vice-Regent
  Miss Fermine Pride, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Roy Avery, Treasurer
  Miss Martha Lindsey, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright, Cor. Secretary
  Mrs. George F. Blackie
  Mrs. Charles E. Buntin
  Mrs. Lyon Childress
  Mrs. Paul DeWitt
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. E. W. Graham
  Mrs. Douglas Henry
  Mrs. Gilbert S. Merritt
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. William H. Wemyss


                           ELECTED MAY, 1951


  Mrs. W. H. Wemyss, Regent
  Mrs. William P. Cooper, First Vice-Regent
  Miss Fermine Pride, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Roy C. Avery, Treasurer
  Miss Martha Lindsey, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright, Cor. Secretary
  Mrs. George F. Blackie
  Mrs. Charles Buntin
  Mrs. Lyon Childress
  Mrs. Paul E. DeWitt
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. E. W. Graham
  Mrs. Douglas Henry
  Mrs. Robert F. Jackson
  Mrs. Gilbert S. Merritt
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton


                           ELECTED MAY, 1953


  Mrs. W. H. Wemyss, Regent
  Mrs. William P. Cooper, First Vice-Regent
  Miss Fermine Pride, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Roy C. Avery, Treasurer
  Miss Martha Lindsey, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright, Cor. Secretary
  Mrs. George F. Blackie
  Mrs. Charles Buntin
  Mrs. Lyon Childress
  Mrs. Paul E. DeWitt
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. E. W. Graham
  Mrs. Douglas Henry
  Mrs. Robert F. Jackson
  Mrs. Gilbert S. Merritt
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. A. MacDowell Smith


                           ELECTED MAY, 1955


  Mrs. Douglas Henry, Regent
  Mrs. William P. Cooper, First Vice-Regent
  Miss Fermine Pride, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Roy C. Avery, Treasurer
  Miss Martha Lindsey, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright, Corres. Secretary
  Mrs. Geo. F. Blackie
  Mrs. Horatio B. Buntin
  Mrs. Lyon Childress
  Mrs. Paul E. DeWitt
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. E. W. Graham
  Mrs. Henry Goodpasture
  Mrs. Robert F. Jackson
  Mrs. Gilbert S. Merritt
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. A. MacDowell Smith
  Mrs. William H. Wemyss


                           ELECTED MAY, 1957


  Mrs. William P. Cooper, Regent
  Miss Martha Lindsey, First Vice-Regent
  Miss Fermine Pride, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Roy C. Avery, Treasurer
  Mrs. Horatio B. Buntin, Secretary
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright, Corres. Secretary
  Mrs. George F. Blackie
  Mrs. Paul E. DeWitt
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. Henry Goodpasture
  Mrs. E. W. Graham
  Mrs. Douglas Henry
  Mrs. Robert F. Jackson
  Mrs. Gilbert S. Merritt
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. A. MacDowell Smith
  Mrs. William H. Wemyss


                           ELECTED MAY, 1959


  Miss Martha Lindsey, Regent
  Mrs. Douglas S. Henry, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. E. W. Graham, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Roy C. Avery, Treasurer
  Mrs. Horatio B. Buntin, Secretary
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright, Corres. Secretary
  Mrs. George F. Blackie
  Mrs. William P. Cooper
  Mrs. Paul E. DeWitt
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. Henry Goodpasture
  Mrs. Gilbert S. Merritt
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. A. MacDowell Smith
  Mrs. William H. Wemyss
  Mrs. John Reid Woodward


                           ELECTED MAY, 1961


  Mrs. A. MacDowell Smith, Regent
  Mrs. William P. Cooper, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. E. W. Graham, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Roy C. Avery, Treasurer
  Mrs. Horatio Buntin, Recording Secretary
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright, Corresponding Secretary
  Mrs. George F. Blackie
  Miss Marian Craig
  Mrs. Paul E. DeWitt
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. Henry Goodpasture
  Mrs. Douglas Henry
  Mrs. Marvin E. Holderness
  Miss Martha Lindsey
  Mrs. Gilbert S. Merritt
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. Fred Russell
  Mrs. Laird Smith
  Mrs. William H. Wemyss
  Mrs. John Reid Woodward


                           ELECTED MAY, 1963


  Mrs. A. MacDowell Smith, Regent
  Mrs. William P. Cooper, First Vice-Regent
  Mrs. E. W. Graham, Second Vice-Regent
  Mrs. Roy C. Avery, Treasurer
  Mrs. Horatio Buntin, Recording Secretary
  Miss Martha Lindsey, Corresponding Secretary
  Mrs. George M. Blackie
  Miss Marian Craig
  Mrs. Paul E. DeWitt
  Mrs. Edgar M. Foster
  Mrs. Henry Goodpasture
  Mrs. Douglas Henry
  Mrs. Marvin E. Holderness
  Mrs. Gilbert S. Merritt
  Mrs. Jesse M. Overton
  Mrs. Fred Russell
  Mrs. Laird Smith
  Mrs. William H. Wemyss
  Mrs. John Reid Woodward
  Mrs. Douglas M. Wright


         Publications Sold By The Ladies' Hermitage Association


  _Guide Book_ (_Catalogue, Historical Data, Pictures_)
    25 Cents
  _The Hermitage, Home of Old Hickory, $3.95_
    Stanley F. Horn
  _Andrew Jackson's Hermitage, $1.50_
    Mary French Caldwell
  _The Battle of New Orleans, Its Real Meaning, 35 Cents_
    Reau E. Folk
  Mr. Bancroft's Oration on the death of Andrew Jackson
    25 Cents
  _Preservation of the Hermitage, $2.00_
    Mrs. Mary C. Dorris
  _Rachel Jackson_, 35 Cents
    Mrs. Walter Stokes
  _Advice to Jackson from His Mother_
    illuminated, 25 Cents
  _Andrew Jackson, Man of Destiny_, 10 Cents
    William E. Beard
  _President's Lady, $3.95_
    Irving Stone
  _Historical Homes of the Old South_ (Drawings)
    75 Cents
  _The Hermitage_, 50 Cents
    Stanley F. Horn
  _Constitution of the United States, Declaration of Independence
          Historical Facts and Data_
    30 Cents
  _Historic Documents; Declaration of Independence, Constitution of
          United States, Bill of Rights, Lincoln's Gettysburg Address_
    $1.00
  _Andrew Jackson and Freemasonry_, By Dr. Paul E. DeWitt
    25c
  _Various Postcards and Slides_


                           FOR YOUNG READERS


  _Andrew Jackson, $2.50_
    Genevieve Foster
  _Rachel Jackson, Tennessee Girl, $1.95_
    Christine Noble Govan
  _The Jacksons of Tennessee, $2.95_
    Marguerite Vance
  _Andrew Jackson, The Fighting Frontiersman, $1.75_
    Frances Fitzpatrick Wright
  _Sam Houston, Fighter and Leader, $1.75_
    Frances Fitzpatrick Wright
  _Andrew Jackson, Frontier Statesman_, $3.50
    Clara Ingram Judson


                 Books and Pamphlets on Andrew Jackson
 IN THE STATE LIBRARY DIVISION OF TENNESSEE STATE LIBRARY AND ARCHIVES

            _Author_                    _Title_                 _Date of
                                                            Publication_
  Jackson, Andrew                Correspondence, 7 vols., ed. by 1926-35
                                 John S. Bassett
  An American Officer            Civil and Military History of      1825
                                 Andrew Jackson
  Bassett, John S.               The Life of Andrew Jackson, 2      1911
                                 vols.
  Bowers, Claude G.              Party Battles of the Jackson       1922
                                 Period
  Brady, Cyrus T.                The True Andrew Jackson            1906
  Brown, William G.              Andrew Jackson                     1900
  Buell, Augustus G.             History of Andrew Jackson          1904
  Campbell, Tom W.               Two Fighters and Two Fines         1941
  Citizen of New York            Memoirs of General Andrew          1845
                                 Jackson
  Cobbett, William               Life of Andrew Jackson             1834
  Colyar, Arthur St. C.          Life and Times of Andrew           1904
                                 Jackson
  Dusenbery, Ben M.              Monument to the Memory of Gen.     1845
                                 Jackson
  Eaton, John H.                 The Life of Andrew Jackson         1817
  Frost, John                    Pictorial Life of Andrew           1847
                                 Jackson
  Gentleman of the Baltimore     Some Account of Gen. Jackson       1828
    Bar
  Goodwin, Philo A.              Biography of Andrew Jackson        1832
  Headley, Joel T.               The Life of Andrew Jackson         1880
  Heiskell, Saml. G.             Andrew Jackson and Early Tenn.     1920
                                 History, 3 vols.
  James, Marquis                 Andrew Jackson, 2 vols.            1938
  Jenkins, Jno. S.               Life and Public Services of        1880
                                 Gen. Andrew Jackson
  Johnson, Gerald W.             Andrew Jackson, An Epic in         1927
                                 Homespun
  Karsner, David                 Andrew Jackson, The Gentle         1929
                                 Savage
  Macdonald, Wm.                 Jacksonian Democracy, 1829-1837    1906
  Mayo, Robert                   Political Sketches of Eight        1839
                                 Years in Washington
  Nicolay, Helen                 Andrew Jackson, The Fighting       1929
                                 President
  Ogg, Frederic A.               The Reign of Andrew Jackson        1921
  Parton, James                  Life of Andrew Jackson, 2 vols.    1860
  Peck, Charles H.               The Jacksonian Epoch               1899
  Rowland, Eron O.               Andrew Jackson's Campaign          1926
                                 Against the British
  Schlesinger, Arthur M.         The Age of Jackson                 1945
  Snelling, William J.           A Brief, Impartial History by a    1831
                                 Free Man
  Sumner, William G.             Andrew Jackson                     1910
  Syrett, Harold G.              Andrew Jackson, His                1953
                                 Contribution
  Van Deusen, Glyndon            The Jacksonian Era, 1828-1848      1959
  Waldo, Samuel P.               Memoirs of Andrew Jackson          1819
  Walker, Alexander              Jackson and New Orleans            1856
  Ward, John W.                  Andrew Jackson, Symbol for an      1955
                                 Age


                           FOR YOUNG READERS

  Coy, Harold                    Real Book About Andrew Jackson     1952
  James, Bessie R.               The Courageous Heart               1934
  Judson, Clara I.               Andrew Jackson                     1954

  In addition to the above, the State Library has many valuable, rare,
  and out-of-print pamphlets on General Jackson.

  _Microfilms of Hermitage Letters and Documents are available at Joint
  University Library._

    [Illustration: Entrance to the Hermitage]




Transcriber's Notes


--Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

--Added headings in the text to match the Table of Contents

--Corrected a few palpable typos.

--In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Hermitage, by Mary C. Dorris

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HERMITAGE ***

***** This file should be named 51641.txt or 51641.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/6/4/51641/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Dave Morgan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

